DISCLOSURE PROJECT BRIEFING DOCUMENT 




Prepared for: 


Members of the Press 
Members of United States Government 
Members of the US Scientific Community 


Written and Compiled by: 


Steven M. Greer, M.D., Director 
and 


Theodore C. Loder III, Ph.D. 




April, 2001 






DISCLOSURE PROJECT BRIEFING DOCUMENT 




This document contains an overview of issues surrounding UFO/ET 
topics, recommendations for action, background information, position 
papers, UFO/ET sighting’s evidence, summarized testimony of military 
and government witnesses to UFO/ETI events, summaries of two major 
recent reports, and selected government documents. 




Author’s Addresses: 




Dr. Steven M. Greer, Director 


The Disclosure Project 
PO Box 265 
Crozet, VA 22932 
Phone: 540-456-8302 
Fax: 540-456-8303 
e-mail: Disclosure200 1 @cs.com 
website: www.DisclosureProject.org 




Dr. Theodore C. Loder III 
Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space 
University of New Hampshire 
Durham, NH 03824 




copyright April 2001 - The Disclosure Project 


No part of this document may be reproduced in any form 
or by any electronic or mechanical means including information and 
retrieval systems without prior written permission of The Disclosure Project 




Copies of the report may be obtained from The Disclosure Project at the above address. 




“There exists a shadowy Government with its own Air Force, its own Navy, 
its own fundraising mechanism, and the ability to pursue its own ideas of the 
national interest, free from all checks and balances, and free from the law 
itself.” 




- Senator Daniel K. Inouye 




“In the councils of Government, we must guard against the acquisition of 
unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the Military 
Industrial Complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power 
exists, and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination 
endanger our liberties or democratic processes. We should take nothing for 
granted. Only an alert and knowledgeable citizenry can compel the proper 
meshing of the huge industrial and military machinery of defense with our 
peaceful methods and goals so that security and liberty may prosper 
together.” 




- President Eisenhower, January 1961 




1 






THE DISCLOSURE PROJECT 




Table of Contents 


1.0 ABSTRACT - Purpose of The Disclosure Project Briefing Document 4 


2.0 TO THE READER - How to Use this document 4 


3.0 DISCLOSURE OVERVIEW 5 


3. 1 Disclosure: Implications for the Environment, World Peace, World Poverty’ and the Human Future 5 


A Brief Summary 5 


3. 2 VIP AND WITNESS QUOTA TIONS ON UNIDENTIFIED FL YING OBJECTS AND 


EXTRATERRESTRIAL INTELLIGENCE 11 


3.2.1 Section I: The Scientists 11 


3.2.2 Section II: The Government Speaks - Political, Military and Intelligence Figures 14 


3.3 UNDERSTANDING UFO SECRECY 18 


3.4 UNACKNOWLEDGED 25 


3.5 PROJECTS AND FACILITIES RELATED TO THE UFO/EXTRATERRESTRIAL MATTER 34 


3.6 TESTIMONY THAT EXPLAINS THE SECRECY. 35 


3. 7 IMPORTANT EDITORIAL NOTICE. 46 


3.8 SUMMARY OF VIDEO TAPED WITNESS TESTIMONY AND GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS 48 


3.8.1 Overview 48 


3.8.2 Radar / Pilot Cases 62 


3.8.3 SAC/NUKE 123 


3.8.4 Government Insiders/ NASA/ Deep Insiders 165 


3.8.5 Technology / Science 323 


4.0 SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDED ACTIONS BY PUBLIC, PRIVATE 


AND GOVERNMENTAL STAKEHOLDERS 350 


4.1 Recommended Press Actions 350 


4.2 Recommended Public Actions 350 


4.3 Recommended Congressional Actions 351 


4.4 Recommended Military’ Actions 353 


4.5 Recommended Scientific Community Actions 354 


4.6 Recommended Actions for the President of the United States 356 


4.7 Amnesty Issues and Security Oaths 357 


4.7.1 Why Amnesty? 357 


4.7.2 Evaluating the Validity of National Security Oaths Related to the UFO/Extraterrestrial Subject (1996) 357 


5.0 THE ISSUES - POSITION PAPERS 359 




- 2 - 






THE DISCLOSURE PROJECT 




5.1 Need for Disclosure and Dangers of Continued Secrecy 360 


5.1.1 Operational Readiness and the Unidentified Flying Object/Extraterrestrial Intelligence (UFO/ETI) Subject: 


Why Military and National Security Leaders Have a Need To Know 360 


5.2 National Security Implications of the UFO/ETI Subject: A Brief Summary > 365 


5.3 New Energy’ Solutions and Implications for the National Security and The Environment: 


A Brief Overview for the US Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works 369 


6.0 BACKGROUND MATERIALS 373 


6.1 Introduction to the Best Available Evidence 373 


6.2 UFO Sightings Prior to the 1940s 374 


6.3 1 942 - 1 945: The Present Era Of UFO Sightings Begin 3 74 


6.4 New Mexico Crash Retrieval and Landing Cases 376 


6.5 Military’ Aircraft Encounter - 1951 379 


6.6 The Summer of 1952: UFOs Over Many Areas Including Washington, D.C. 382 


6. 7 Air Command Base Overflights 385 


6.8 Military’ Chase Over Iran - 1976 389 


6.9 RAF/USAF Bentwaters - Woodbridge - December 1980 391 


6.10 The Japan Air Lines Incident (1986) 394 


6.11 The United Kingdom Wave of the 1990s - Triangular Craft and More 395 


6. 12 The Mexico Wave - From 1991 396 


6. 13 The Incident in Varginha - Extraterrestrial Life Forms captured in Brazil? 397 


6. 14 The Arizona Sightings - March 1997 399 


6.15 St. Clair, Illinois Sightings in Jan, 2000 402 


7.0 A SUMMARY REVIEW OF ENERGY AND ANTI-GRAVITY RESEARCH 404 


8.0 SUMMARY REVIEW OF RECENT PRIVATE STUDIES 422 


8. 1 Sturrock/Rockefeller Report on Physical Evidence Related to UFO Reports 422 


8.2 COMETA Report: The French Report on UFOs and Defense 425 


9.0 APPENDIX AI. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS RELATED TO UFOs 430 


9.1 Summary Review of Government Documents 430 


9.2 Appendix 1.1: List of Descriptions of Government Documents Related to UFOs 431 


10.0 RECOMMENDED READING LIST 490 




11.0 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 




490 






1.0 ABSTRACT - Purpose of The Disclosure Project Briefing Document 




This briefing document was written to provide an overview of a public disclosure of the very 
complex UFO/ET (Unidentified Flying Object/ExtraTerrestrial) subject and provide background 
materials and references for individuals to start their own research. This subject is inherently 
overwhelming as it touches on broad and profound implications for the future of mankind on our 
planet from both an intellectual and a technological perspective. We have provided 
recommended actions for different stakeholders (including the press, the public, congress, the 
military, the scientific establishment, the president of the US, and the members of the UFO/ET 
control groups). These recommendations should help smooth the disclosure process, making this 
issue the subject of open and informed discussion, both within our government and the public 
sectors. The background materials include the following types of information: 1) Summaries of 
video taped testimony of military, government and private first-hand witnesses to UFO/ET 
events. 2) A series of position papers describing the background history, the need and 
implications of disclosure and the dangers of continued secrecy. 3) Fourteen major sightings 
cases with over two dozen military witnesses, many with multiple witnesses and supporting 
government documents. 4) A series of 27 quotes from scientists and government witnesses who 
knew the subject is real. 5) Reviews of two major recent reports by scientific review committees 
on the need for further research into the UFO phenomena. 6) A high level review of 
technological issues including zero-point energy, over-unity devices and anti-gravity research. 
By reading this document, it is hoped that the astute and open-minded reader will understand that 
UFOs are real, and move on to thoughtfully address the implications of this reality for our 
governments and people of this planet. 


2.0 TO THE READER - How to Use this document 


Carl Sagan once stated that “ extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence .” In the case 
of the UFO issue this could be clarified with two additional statements: “ the development of 
extraordinary evidence requires extraordinary attention ”, and “ extraordinary attention is not 
merely justified, but virtually demanded by the growing legion of extraordinary observations .” 


With this in mind, we suggest the reader use this briefing document as a source book, not a 
read-through report. First, read the Abstract and Disclosure Implications (section 3.1) to gain a 
sense of the overall issues. If you (like many) have trouble believing our government can not 
keep a secret (they can) and therefore this can not be true, read Understanding UFO secrecy (3.3) 
and Unacknowledged (3.4). Then if you have not already done so, read or review our 
Recommended Actions (4.0) for various stakeholders to understand what needs to be done to 
disclose these issues. If you want to better understand the critical need for disclosure and its 
implications in more detail, read the remaining Position Papers in section 5.0. 


Our experience has shown that when individuals are first presented with this information, it 
strains their credulity. However, once they have done their own research, they begin to truly 
grasp the reality and complexity of these issues. To help you get started we have provided 
several types of evidence. The summary of Witness Testimony (3.8) provides compelling first- 
hand evidence, which supports the notion that there are numerous people involved in the UFO 
issue and its cover up, and that a number are willing to come forward with testimony about their 
experiences in this field. In addition, a number of well-known and well-documented UFO cases 
(6.0) are reviewed, many which have supporting government documents included in the 
Appendix. The Introduction to the Best Available Evidence (6.1) provides sources for obtaining 
further information. The Quotations section (3.2) cites quotations about the UFO issue from 
many well known military and government figures “in the know” since the 1940s. There is also a 




4 






high level review of zero-point energy, over-unity devices and anti-gravity research (7.0). 
Finally, summaries are included of recent US and French UFO studies by scientists, government 
leaders, and military people (8.0). Further supporting information will be found in Dr. Greer’s 
book on the witness testimony. 1 


3.0 DISCLOSURE OVERVIEW 


3.1 Disclosure: Implications for the Environment, World Peace, World Poverty 
and the Human Future 




A Brief Summary 


Copyright Steven M. Greer, M.D. - March 2001 


For most people, the question of whether or not we are alone in the universe is a mere 
philosophical musing - something of academic interest but of no practical importance. Even 
evidence that we are currently being visited by non-human advanced life forms seems to many to 
be an irrelevancy in a world of global warming, crushing poverty and the threat of war. In the 
face of real challenges to the long-term human future, the question of UFOs, extraterrestrials and 
secret government projects is a mere sideshow, right? Wrong - catastrophically wrong. 


The evidence and testimony presented in the following pages establishes the following: 


> That we are indeed being visited by advanced extraterrestrial civilizations and have been 
for some time; 


> That this is the most classified, compartmented program within the US and many other 
countries; 


> That those projects have, as warned in 1961 by President Eisenhower, escaped legal 
oversight and control in the US, the UK and elsewhere; 


> That advanced spacecraft of extraterrestrial origin, called extraterrestrial vehicles (ETVs) 
by some intelligence agencies, have been downed, retrieved and studied since at least the 
1940s and possibly as early as the 1930s; 


> That significant technological breakthroughs in energy generation and propulsion have 
resulted from the study of these objects (and from related human innovations dating as far 
back as the time of Nicola Tesla) and that these technologies utilize a new physics not 
requiring the burning of fossil fuels or ionizing radiating to generate vast amounts of 
energy; 


> That classified, above top-secret projects possess fully operational anti-gravity propulsion 
devices and new energy generation systems that, if declassified and put to peaceful uses, 
would empower a new human civilization without want, poverty or environmental 
damage. 


Those who doubt these assertions should carefully read the testimony of dozens of military 
and government witnesses whose testimony clearly establishes these facts. Given the vast and 
profound implications of these statements, whether one accepts or seriously doubts these 
assertions, all must demand that congressional hearings be convened to get to the truth of this 




1 Greer, Steven M. Disclosure: Military’ and Government Witnesses Reveal the Greatest Secrets in Modern 
History. 2001. 




5 






matter. For nothing less that the human future hangs in the balance. 


Implications for the Environment: 


We have identified insiders and scientists who can prove, in open Congressional hearings, 
that we do in fact possess classified energy generation and anti-gravity propulsion systems 
capable of completely and permanently replacing all forms of currently used energy generation 
and transportation systems. These devices access the ambient electromagnetic and so-called zero 
point energy state to produce vast amounts of energy without any pollution. Such systems 
essentially generate energy by tapping into the ever-present quantum vacuum energy state - the 
baseline energy from which all energy and matter is fluxing. All matter and energy is supported 
by this baseline energy state and it can be tapped through unique electromagnetic circuits and 
configurations to generate huge amounts of energy from space/time all around us. These are 
NOT perpetual motion machines nor do they violate the laws of thermodynamics - they merely 
tap an ambient energy field all around us to generate energy. 


This means that such systems do not require fuel to bum or atoms to split or fuse. They do no 
require central power plants, transmission lines and the related multi-trillion dollar infrastructure 
required to electrify and power remote areas of India, China, Africa and Latin America. These 
systems are site-specific: they can be set up at any place and generate needed energy. Essentially, 
this constitutes the definitive solution to the vast majority of environmental problems facing our 
world. 


The environmental benefits of such a discovery can hardly be overstated, but a brief list 
include: 


> The elimination of oil, coal and gas as sources of energy generation, thus the elimination 
of air and water pollution related to the transport and use of these fuels. Oil spills, global 
warming, illnesses from air pollution, acid rain etc can and must be ended within 10-20 
years; 


> Resource depletion and geo-political tensions arising from competition for fossil fuel 
resources will end; 


> Technologies already exist to scrub manufacturing effluent to zero or near zero emissions 
for both air and water - but they use a great deal of energy and thus are considered too 
costly to fully utilize. Moreover, since they are energy intensive, and our energy systems 
today create most of the air pollution in the world, a point of diminishing return for the 
environment is reached quickly. That equation is dramatically changed when industries 
are able to tap vast amounts of free energy (there is no fuel to pay for - only the device, 
which is no more costly than other generators) and those systems create no pollution; 


> Energy-intensive recycling efforts will be able to reach full application since the energy 
needed to process solid waste will, again, be free and abundant; 


> Agriculture, which is currently very energy dependent and polluting, can be transformed 
to use clean, non-polluting sources of energy; 


> Desertification can be reversed and world agriculture empowered by utilizing 
desalinization plants, that are now very energy intensive and expensive, but will become 
cost-efficient once able to use these new, non-polluting energy systems; 


> Air travel, trucking and inter-city transportation systems will be replaced with new 
energy and propulsion technologies (anti-gravity systems allow for silent above surface 
movement). No pollution will be generated and costs will decrease substantially since the 
energy expenses will be negligible. Additionally, mass transportation in urban areas can 
utilize these systems to provide silent, efficient intra-city movement; 




6 






> Noise pollution from jets, trucks and other modes of transportation will be eliminated by 
the use of these silent devices; 


> Public utilities will not be needed since each home, office and factory will have a device 
to generate whatever energy is needed. This means ugly transmission lines that are 
subject to storm damage and power interruption will be a thing of the past. Underground 
gas pipelines, which not infrequently rupture or leak and damage Earth and water 
resources, will not be needed at all; 


> Nuclear power plants will be decommissioned and the technologies needed to clean such 
sites will be available. Classified technologies do exist to neutralize nuclear waste. 


Utopia? No, because human society will always be imperfect - but perhaps not as 
dysfunctional as it is today. These technologies are real - I have seen them. Anti-gravity is a 
reality and so is free energy generation. This is not a fantasy or a hoax. Do not believe those who 
say that this is not possible: they are the intellectual descendants of those who said the Wright 
brothers would never fly. 


Current human civilization has reached the point of being able to commit planeticide: the 
killing of an entire world. We can and we must do better. These technologies exist and every 
single person who is concerned about the environment and the human future should call for 
urgent hearings to allow these technologies to be disclosed, declassified and safely applied. 


Implications for Society and World Poverty: 


From the above, it is obvious that these technologies that are currently classified would 
enable human civilization to achieve sustainability. Of course, in the near term, we are talking 
about the greatest social, economic and technological revolution in human history - bar none. I 
will not minimize the world-encompassing changes that would inevitably attend such disclosures. 
Having dealt with this issue for much of my adult life, I am acutely aware of how immense these 
changes will be. 


Aside from the singular realization that homo-sapiens are not the only - or most advanced - 
creatures in the universe, this disclosure will cause humanity to be faced with the greatest risks 
and opportunities in known history. If we do nothing, our civilization will collapse 
environmentally, economically, geo-politically and socially. In 10-20 years, fossil fuel and oil 
demand will outstrip supply significantly - and then it is the Mad Max scenario where everyone 
is warring over the last barrel of oil. It is likely that this geo-political and social collapse will 
precede any environmental catastrophe. 


The disclosure of these new technologies will give us a new, sustainable civilization. World 
poverty will be eliminated within our life times. With the advent of these new energy and 
propulsion systems, no place on Earth will need to suffer from want. Even the deserts will 
bloom... 


Once abundant and nearly free energy is available in impoverished areas for agriculture, 
transportation, construction, manufacturing and electrification, there is no limit to what humanity 
can achieve. It is ridiculous -obscene even- that mind-boggling poverty and famine exists in the 
world while we sit on classified technologies that could completely reverse this situation. So 
why not release these technologies? Because the social, economic and geo-political order of the 
world would be greatly altered. Every deep insider with whom I have met has emphasized that 
this would be the greatest change in known human history. The matter is so highly classified not 
because it is so silly, but because its implications are so profound and far reaching. By nature, 




7 






those who control such projects do not like change. And here we are talking about the biggest 
economic, technological, social and geo-political change in known human history. Hence, the 
status quo is maintained, even as our civilization hurtles towards oblivion. 


But by this argument, we would have never had the industrial revolution and the Ludites 
would have reigned supreme to this day. 


An international effort to minimize disruption to the economy and to ease the transition to 
this new social and economic reality will be needed. We can do this and we must. Special 
interests in certain oil, energy and economic sectors need to be reigned in and at the same time 
treated compassionately: Nobody likes to see their power and empire crumble. Nations very 
dependent on the sale of oil and gas will need help diversifying, stabilizing and transitioning to a 
new economic order. 


The United States, Europe and Japan will need to adjust to a new geo-political reality as well: 
As currently poor but populous countries dramatically develop technologically and economically, 
they will demand - and will get - a meaningful seat at the international table. And this is as it 
should be. But the international community will need to put in place safeguards to prevent such 
potential geo-political rapprochement between the first and third world from devolving into 
bellicose and disruptive behavior on the part of the newly empowered. 


The US in particular will need to lead through strength - but avoid the current trend towards 
domination. Leadership and domination are not the same, and the sooner we learn the difference 
the better off the world will be. There can be international leadership without domination and 
hegemony, and the US needs to realize these distinctions if it is to provide much- needed 
leadership on this issue. 


These technologies, because they will decentralize power - literally and figuratively - will 
enable the billions living in misery and poverty to enter a world of new abundance. And with 
economic and technological development, education will rise and birth rates will fall. It is well 
known that as societies become more educated, prosperous and technologically advanced - and 
women take an increasingly equal role in society - the birth rate falls and population stabilizes. 
This is a good thing for world civilization and the future of humanity. 


With each village cleanly electrified, agriculture empowered with clean and free energy and 
transportation costs lowered, poverty will dramatically fall in the world. If we act now, by 2030 
we will be able to effectively eliminate all poverty in the world as we know it today. We only 
need the courage to accept these changes and the wisdom to steer humanity safely and peacefully 
into a new time. 


Implications for World Peace and Security: 


A few years ago I was discussing this subject with the former Chairman of the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee, Senator Claiborne Pell. He explained to me that he had been in Congress 
since the 1950s but had never been briefed on this subject. I told him that the nature of these 
black projects has resulted in most of our leaders being left out of any decision making on this 
subject, and what a shame this is. I said, “Senator Pell, all that time you were Chairman of 
Foreign Relations, you were deprived of the opportunity to deal with the ultimate foreign 
relations challenge...” and I pointed to the stars above our heads. He said, “ You know Dr. 
Greer, I am afraid that you are right. . .” 






It is true that our great diplomats and wise elders, such as Senator Pell, President Jimmy 
Carter and other international leaders have been specifically and deliberately prevented from 
having access to or control over this subject. This is a direct threat to world peace. In the vacuum 
of secrecy, operations supervised by neither the people, the people’s representatives, the UN nor 
any other legitimate entity have taken actions that directly threaten world peace. 


Testimony, corroborated by multiple military witnesses who do not know each other and who 
have had no opportunity for collusion, will show that the US and other countries have engaged 
these ETVs in armed attack, in some cases leading to the downing of these vehicles. As I said to 
Mrs. Boutros Ghali, wife of the then Secretary General of the UN, if there is even a 10% chance 
that this is true, then this constitutes the gravest threat to world peace in human history 


Having personally interviewed numerous credible military and aerospace officials with direct 
knowledge of such actions, I am certain that we have done this. Why? Because these u nk nown 
vehicles have been in our airspace without our permission and because we wanted to acquire their 
technology. Nobody has asserted that there is an actual threat to humanity from these objects: 
Obviously, any civilization capable of routine interstellar travel could terminate our civilization in 
a nanosecond, if that was their intent. That we are still breathing the free air of Earth is abundant 
testimony to the non-hostile nature of these ET civilizations. 


We have also been informed that the so-called Star Wars (or National Missile Defense 
System) effort has really been a cover for black project deployment of weapon systems to track, 
target and destroy ETVs as they approach Earth or enter Earth’s atmosphere. No less a figure 
than Wemher Von Braun warned on his deathbed of both the reality and the madness of such a 
scheme, apparently to no avail (see the Testimony of Carol Rosin, former spokesperson for 
Wemher Von Braun). 


Well, unless we change directions we are likely to end up where we are going. 


With the types of weapons currently in the covert arsenal - weapons more fearsome even 
than thermonuclear devices - there is no possibility of a survivable conflict. Yet in the darkness 
of secrecy, actions have been taken on behalf of every human that may endanger our future. Only 
a full, honest disclosure will correct this situation. It is not possible for me to convey in words 
the urgency of this. 


For 10 years I worked as an emergency doctor and saw how every possible object can be used 
as a weapon. Every technology, unless guided by wisdom and a desire for that good and peaceful 
future - the only future possible - will be used for conflict. Super-secret projects that answer to 
no legally constituted body - not the UN, not the US Congress, not the British Parliament - must 
not be allowed to continue to act in this way on behalf of humanity. 


One of the greatest dangers of extreme secrecy is that it creates a hermetically sealed, closed 
system impervious to the free and open exchange of ideas. In such an environment, it is easy to 
see how grave mistakes can be made. For instance, the testimony here will show that these ETVs 
became very prominent after we developed the first nuclear weapons - and began to go into 
space. There were multiple events - corroborated here by numerous credible military officials - 
of these objects hovering over and even neutralizing ICBMs (Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles). 


A closed, military view of this might be to take offense, engage in counter-measures, and 
attempt to down such objects. In fact, this would be the normal response. But what if these ET 
civilizations were saying, “Please do not destroy your beautiful world - and know this: we will 




9 






not let you go into space with such madness and threaten others...” An event showing concern 
and even a larger cosmic wisdom could be construed over and over again as an act of aggression. 
Such misunderstandings and myopia are the stuff wars are made of. 


Whatever our perceptions of these visitors, there is no chance that misunderstandings can be 
resolved through violent engagement. To contemplate such madness is to contemplate the 
termination of human civilization. 


It is time for our wise elders and our levelheaded diplomats, like Sen. Pell, to be put in charge 
of these weighty matters. To leave this in the hands of a clique of un-elected, self-appointed and 
unaccountable covert operations is the greatest threat to US national security and world security 
in history. Eisenhower was right, but nobody was listening. 


In light of testimony showing that covert actions have been taken that involved violent 
engagement of these visitors, it is imperative that the international community in general and the 
US Congress and President in particular do the following: 


> Convene hearings to assess the risks to national and international security posed by the 
current covert management of the subject; 


> Enforce an immediate ban on weapons in space and specifically ban the targeting of any 
extraterrestrial objects since such actions are unwarranted and could endanger the whole 
of humanity; 


> Develop a special diplomatic unit to interface with these extraterrestrial civilizations, 
foster communication and peaceful relations; 


> Develop a suitably empowered and open international oversight group to manage human- 
extraterrestrial relations and ensure peaceful and mutually beneficial interactions; 


> Support international institutions that can ensure the peaceful use of those new 
technologies related to advanced energy and propulsion systems (see below). 


In addition to the above, a less obvious - but perhaps equally pressing - threat to world peace 
arises from the fact that the covert control of this subject has resulted in the world being deprived 
of the new energy and propulsion technologies discussed earlier. 


World poverty and a widening gap between rich and poor are serious threats to world peace, 
which would be corrected by the disclosure and peaceful application of these technologies (see 
above). The real threat of war over a shrinking supply of fossil fuels in the next 10-20 years 
further underscores the need for this disclosure. What happens when the 4 billion people living in 
poverty want cars, electricity and other modem conveniences - all of which depend on fossil 
fuels? To any thinking person, it is obvious that we must transition quickly to the use of these 
now classified technologies - they are powerful solutions already sitting on a shelf. 


Of course, a number of insiders have pointed out that these technologies are not your 
grandfather’s Oldsmobile: They are technological advances, like any other, that could be put to 
violent uses by terrorists, bellicose nations and madmen. But here we enter a catch 22: If these 
technologies are not forthcoming soon, we will face a certain meltdown in human civilization and 
the environment; if they are disclosed, immensely powerful new technologies will be out there for 
possible destructive uses. 


In the short term, it is prudent to view humanity as likely to use any new technology 
violently. This means that international agencies must be created to ensure - and enforce - the 
exclusive peaceful use of such devices. The technologies exist today to link every such device to 
a GPS (Global Positioning System) monitor that could disable or render useless any device 




10 






tampered with or used for anything put peaceful power generation and propulsion. These 
technologies should be regulated and monitored. And the international community must mature to 
a level of competence to ensure their exclusive peaceful use. 


Any other use should be met with overwhelming resistance by every other nation on Earth. 


Such a pact is the necessary next step. Maybe someday, humanity will live in peace without 
the need for such controls. But for now, the situation is like that of chained dogs - some strong 
leashes are warranted and are essential. 


But such concerns cannot be a rationale for further delaying the disclosure of these 
technologies. We have the knowledge and means to ensure their safe and peaceful use - and these 
must be applied soon if we are to avoid further degradation of the environment and an escalation 
of world poverty and conflict. 


In the final analysis, then, we are faced with a social and spiritual crisis that transcends any 
technological or scientific challenge. The technological solutions exit - but do we possess the 
will, wisdom and courage to apply them for the common good? The more one contemplates this 
matter the more it is obvious that we have one possible future: Peace. Peace on Earth and peace in 
space - a universal Peace, wisely enforced. For every other path leads to ruin. 


This then is the greatest challenge of the current era. Can our spiritual and social resources 
rise to this challenge? Nothing less than the destiny of the human race hangs in the balance. 


3.2 VIP AND WITNESS QUOTATIONS ON UNIDENTIFIED FLYING 
OBJECTS AND EXTRATERRESTRIAL INTELLIGENCE 


3.2.1 Section I: The Scientists 


Carl Sagan, Ph.D. 


Late Professor of Astronomy and Space Sciences, Cornell University 


“It now seems quite clear that Earth is not the only inhabited planet. There is evidence that 
the bulk of the stars in the sky have planetary systems. Recent research concerning the origin 
of life on Earth suggests that the physical and chemical processes leading to the origin of life 
occur rapidly in the early history of the majority of planets within our Milky Way galaxy— 
perhaps as many as a million— are inhabited by technical civilizations in advance of our own. 
Interstellar space flight is far beyond our present technical capabilities, but there seems to be 
no fundamental physical objections to preclude, from our own vantage point, the possibility 
of its development by other civilizations.” 2 


Margaret Mead, Ph.D. 


Anthropologist, author 


“There are unidentified flying objects. That is, there are a hard core of cases— perhaps 20 to 
30 percent in different studies— for which there is no explanation. We can only imagine what 




2 Sagan, Carl. “Unidentified Flying Objects.” They Encyclopedia Americana. 1963. 




11 






purpose lies behind the activities of these quiet, harmlessly cruising objects that time and 
again approach the Earth. The most likely explanation, it seems to me, is that they are simply 
watching what we are up to...” 3 


J. Allen Hynek, Ph.D. 


Former Chairman, Department of Astronomy, Northwestern University; Scientific 
Consultant, Air Force Project Blue Book (1947 - 1969) 


“Each wave of sightings adds to the accumulation of reports which defy analysis by present 
methods... An investigative process in depth is necessary here if, after twenty years of 
confusion, we want some answers.” 


“When the long awaited solution to the UFO problem comes, I believe that it will prove to be 
not merely the next small step in the march of science but a mighty and totally unexpected 
quantum jump.” 4 5 


Frank B. Salisbury, Ph.D. 


Professor, Plant Physiology, Utah State University 


“I must admit that any favorable mention of the flying saucers by a scientist amounts to 
extreme heresy and places the one making the statement in danger of excommunication by 
the scientific theocracy. Nevertheless, in recent years I have investigated the story of the 
unidentified flying object (UFO), and I am no longer able to dismiss the idea lightly.” 


James E. McDonald, Ph.D. 


Senior Physicist, Institute of Atmospheric Physics, University of Arizona 


“The type of UFO reports that are most intriguing are close-range sightings of machinelike 
objects of unconventional nature and unconventional performance characteristics, seen at low 
altitudes, and sometimes even on the ground. The general public is entirely unaware of the 
large number of such reports that are coming from credible witnesses... When one starts 
searching for such cases, their numbers are quite astonishing.” 6 


American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics UFO Subcommittee (1967) 


“From a scientific and engineering standpoint, it is unacceptable to simply ignore substantial 
numbers of unexplained observations. ..the only promising approach is a continuing moderate- 
level effort with emphasis on improved data collection and objective means ...involving 
available remote sensing capabilities and certain software changes.” [emphasis added] 


and regarding The Condon Report (Project Blue Book), 1986: 




3 Mead, Margaret. “UFOs: Visitors from Outer Space?” Redbook, Vol. 143, September 1974. 


4 Hynek, J. Allen: From interview in The Chicago Sun Times, August 28, 1966; “The UFO Experience: A 
Scientific Inquiry.” Regnery Co., 1972. 


5 Salsbury, Frank B.: Fuller, John G., Incident at Exeter, Putnum, 1966 (quoting a paper presented at the U.S. 
Air Force Academy in Colorado in May 1964). 


6 McDonald, James E.: “Symposium on Unidentified Flying Objects,” Hearings before the Committee on 
Science and Astronautics, U.S. House of Representatives, July 1968. 




12 






“The opposite conclusion could have been drawn from The Condon Report ’s content; 
namely, that a phenomenon with such a high ratio of unexplained cases (about 30 percent) 
should arouse sufficient scientific curiosity to continue its study.” 7 


Peter A. Sturrock, Ph.D. 


Professor, Space Science and Astrophysics, and deputy director of the Center for Space 
Sciences and Astrophysics, Stanford University 


“The definitive resolution of the UFO enigma will not come about unless and until the 
problem is subjected to open and extensive scientific study by the normal procedures of 
established science and administrators in universities.” 


“Although... the scientific community has tended to minimize the significance of the UFO 
phenomenon, certain individual scientists have argued that the phenomenon is both real and 
significant... To a scientist, the main source of hard information (other than his own 
experiments [and] observations) is provided by the scientific journals. With rare exceptions, 
scientific journals do not publish reports of UFO observations. The decision not to publish is 
made by the editor acting on the advice of reviewers. This process is self-reinforcing; the 
apparent lack of data confirms the view that there is nothing to the UFO phenomenon, and 
this view works against the presentation of relevant data...” 8 9 


Helmut Lammer, Ph.D. 


Physicist, Space Research Institute, Department for Extraterrestrial Physics, Austria 
[Writing about the formations in the Cydonia region of Mars] 


“It is the author’s belief that the Viking data are not of sufficient resolution to permit the 
identification of possible mechanisms of the origin for these objects, although some results to 
date suggest that they may not be natural. Clearly these mysterious objects deserve further 
scrutiny by the forthcoming Mars missions. If one of these missions finds that the face on 
Mars, the pyramids and the other strange structures are indeed artificial, then the ‘unlikely’ 
Prior Colonization or Previous Technical Civilization hypotheses would provide a possible 
answer. 


Professor Hermann Oberth (1894-1989) 


German rocket expert and a founding father of the space age. 


“It is my thesis that flying saucers are real and that they are space ships from another solar 
system. I think that they possibly are manned by intelligent observers who are members of a 
race that may have been investigating our Earth for centuries. I think that they possibly have 
been sent out to conduct systematic, long-range investigations, first of men, animals, 
vegetation, and more recently of atomic centers, armaments an centers of armament 
production.” 10 




7 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, UFO Subcommittee (1967), The Encyclopedia of UFOs, 
1980. 


8 Sturrock, Peter A.: “An Analysis of the Condon Report on the Colorado UFO Project,” Journal of Scientific 
Exploration, Vol. l,No. 1, 1987. 


9 Lammer, Helmut: “Atmospheric Mass Loss on Mars and the Consequences for the Cydonian Hypothesis and 
Early Martian Life Forms,” Journal of Scientific Explorations, Vol. 10, No. 3, 1996. 


10 Oberth, Hermann: “Flying Saucers Come from a Distant World,” The American Weekly, October 24, 1954. 




13 






Dr. Carl Justav Jung 


“A purely psychological explanation is ruled out... the discs show signs of intelligent 
guidance, by quasi-human pilots. ..the authorities in possession of important information 
should not hesitate to enlighten the public as soon and as completely as possible.” 11 


Astronaut Edgar Mitchell, Ph.D. 


In 1971, Dr. Mitchell became the sixth person to walk on the moon as part of the US Apollo 
Space program. 


“I am an American astronaut and a trained scientist. Because of my position people in high 
places confide in me. And, as a result, I have no doubt that aliens HAVE visited this planet. 
The American government and governments throughout the world have thousands of files of 
UFO sightings which cannot be explained. As a scientist, it is logical to me that at least some 
of these will have been witness of alien craft. As a former astronaut, the military people who 
have access to these files are more willing to talk to me than to people they regard as mere 
cranks. The stories I have heard from these people, who are more highly qualified than me to 
talk about UFOs, leave me in no doubt that aliens have already visited Earth. . .” 


. . . “when I learned that aliens really do exist, I wasn’t too surprised. But what did shock me 
when I started investigating extra-terrestrial reports a decade ago is the extent to which the 
proof has been hushed up. It isn’t just the US government which has kept quiet about alien 
visits. It would be arrogant of an American like myself to assume that ETs would only 
choose to visit my country. Indeed, I’ve heard convincing stories about governments all over 
the world that know of alien visits - including the British government.” 12 


3.2.2 Section II: The Government Speaks - 


Political, Military and Intelligence Figures 


President Harry S. Truman 


“I can assure you that flying saucers, given that they exist, are not constructed by any power 
on Earth.” 13 


President Dwight D. Eisenhower 


“Beware the military-industrial complex.” 14 


President Gerald Ford 


“...I have taken a special interest in these [UFO] accounts because many of the latest reported 
sightings have been in my home state of Michigan... Because I thi nk there may be substance 
to some of these reports and because I believe the American people are entitled to a more 
thorough explanation than has been given them by the Air Force to date, I am proposing that 
either the Science and Astronautics Committee or the Armed Services Committee of the 
House, schedule hearings on the subject of UFOs and invite testimony from both the 
executive branch of the Government and some of the persons who claim to have seen UFOs... 




1 1 Jung, Carl: Flying Saucers: A Modern Myth of Things Seen in the Sk}> (R.F.C. Hull translation), 1959. 


12 Anonymous: “Yes, Aliens Really Are Out There, Says the Man on the Moon,” The People [a London 
Newspaper], October 25, 1998. 


13 Traman, Harry: White House press conference, April 4, 1950. 


14 Eisenhower, Dwight: Last speech as President, January, 1961. 




14 






In the firm belief that the American public deserves a better explanation than that thus far 
given by the Air Force, I strongly recommend that there be a committee investigation of the 
UFO phenomena. I thi nk we owe it to the people to establish credibility regarding UFOs and 
to produce the greatest possible enlightenment on this subject .” 15 


President Jimmy Carter 


“If I become President, I’ll make every piece of information this country has about UFO 
sightings available to the public, and the scientists. I am convinced that UFOs exist because 
I’ve seen one ...” 16 


President Ronald Reagan 


“...when you stop to thi nk that we’re all God’s children, wherever we may live in the world, I 
couldn’t help but say to [Gorbachev], just thi nk how easy his task and mine might be in these 
meetings that we held if suddenly there was a threat to this world from some other species 
from another planet outside in the universe. . .” 


“Perhaps we need some outside, universal threat to make us recognize this common bond. I 
occasionally thi nk how quickly our differences worldwide would vanish if we were facing an 
alien threat from outside this world .” 17 


J. Edgar Hoover 


“I would do it [study UFOs], but before agreeing to do it, we must insist upon full access to 
discs recovered. For instance in the L.A. case, the Army grabbed it and would not let us have 
it for cursory examination .” 18 


General Nathan D. Twining 


While he was the Commanding General of the Air Material Command he wrote the 
following: 


“It is the opinion that: 


a. The phenomena reported is something real and not visionary or fictitious. 


b. There are objects probably approximating the shape of a disc, of such appreciable size 
as to appear to be as large as a man-made aircraft. 


c. There is a possibility that some of the incidents may be caused by natural phenomena, 
such as meteors. 


d. The reported operating characteristics such as extreme rates of climb, maneuverability 
(particularly in roll), and action which must be considered evasive when sighted or 
contacted by friendly aircraft and radar, lend belief to the possibility that some of the 
objects are controlled either manually, automatically, or remotely .” 19 




15 Ford, Gerald: Letter to L. Mendel Rivers, Chairman of the Armed Service Committee, March 28, 1966. 


16 Carter, Jimmy: The National Enquirer, June 8, 1976; confirmed by White House media liaison Jim Purks, in 
a letter dated April 20, 1979. 


17 Reagan, Ronald: 1) White House transcript of speech at Fallston High School, December 4, 1985; 2) Speech 
to the United Nations General Assembly, September 23, 1987. 


18 Hoover, J. Edgar: Letter to Clyde Tolson, July 15, 1947. 


19 Twining, Nathan: Letter to Commanding General of the Army, September 23, 1947. 




15 






General Walter Bedell Smith 


CIA Director, 1950-1953 


“The Central Intelligence Agency has reviewed the current situation concerning unidentified 
flying objects which have crated extensive speculation in the press and have been the subject 
of concern to government organizations... Since 1947, approximately 2,000 official reports 
of sightings have been received, and, of these, about 20% are as yet unexplained. It is my 
view that this situation has possible implications for our national security which transcend the 
interests of a single service. A broader, coordinated effort should be initiated to develop a 
firm scientific understanding of the several phenomena which apparently are involved in 
these reports...” 20 


H. Marshall Chadwell 


Assistant Director, Scientific Intelligence, CIA 


“Since 1947, ATIC has received approximately 1500 official reports of sightings plus an 
enormous volume of letters, phone calls, and press reports. During July 1952 alone, official 
reports totaled 250. Of the 1500 reports, Air Force carries 20 percent as unexplained and of 
those received from January through July 1952 it carries 28 percent unexplained .” 21 


Captain Edward J. Ruppelt 


Former head [1951-1953], U.S. Air Force Project Blue Book 


“This report has been difficult to write because it involves something that doesn’t officially 
exist. It is well known that ever since the first flying saucer was reported in June 1 947 the 
Air Force has officially said that there is no proof that such a thing as an interplanetary 
spaceship exists. But what is not well known is that this conclusion is far from being 
unanimous among the military and their scientific advisors because of the one word, proof so 
the UFO investigations continue.” 22 




Admiral Roscoe Hillenkoetter 


First Director, CIA, 1947-1950 


“It is time for the truth to be brought out... Behind the scenes, high-ranking Air Force 
officers are soberly concerned about the UFOs. But through official secrecy and ridicule, 
many citizens are led to believe the unknown flying objects are nonsense... I urge immediate 
Congressional action to reduce the dangers from secrecy about Unidentified Flying 
Objects...” 23 


Major General E. B. LeBailly 


Director of Information, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force 




20 Smith, Walter: Memorandum to National Security Council, 1952. 


21 Chadwell, H. Marshall: Memorandum to Director of Central Intelligence, 1952. 


22 Ruppelt, Edward: The Report on Unidentified Flying Objects, Ruppelt, Doubleday, New York, 1956. 


23 Hillenkoeter, Roscoe; Aliens from Space, Major Donald E. Keyhoe, 1975. 




16 






“...many of the reports that cannot be explained have come from intelligent and technically 
well qualified individuals whose integrity cannot be doubted. In addition, the reports 
received officially by the Air Force include only a fraction of the spectacular reports which 
are publicized by many private UFO organizations.” 24 


Congressman William Stanton (Pennsylvania) 


“The Air Force failed in its responsibility in thoroughly investigating this incident [April 17, 
1966 sighting, Pennsylvania]... Once people entrusted with the public welfare no longer thi nk 
people can handle the truth, then the people, in turn, will no longer trust the government.” 25 


Wilbert Smith 


Department of Transport - Canada, senior radio engineer, head of Project Magnet 


“The matter is the most highly classified subject in the United States Government, rating 
higher even than the H-bomb. Flying saucers exist. Their modus operandi is u nk nown but 
concentrated effort is being made by a small group headed by Doctor Vannevar Bush. The 
entire matter is considered by the United States authorities to be of tremendous 
significance.” 26 


Lord Hill-Norton, Admiral of the Fleet, Great Britain (Five Star) 


“I have frequently been asked why I am so keenly interested in UFOs; people seem to think it 
odd that someone who has been so closely involved with Defense for many years should be 
so simple. I am interested for several reasons. First, I have the sort of inquiring mind that 
likes to have things satisfactorily explained, and the one aspect of this whole matter which is 
starkly clear to me is that UFOs have not been explained, to my satisfaction. Indeed, so far as 
I am concerned the U stands more for un explained than unidentified. Second, there is a very 
wide range of other unexplained phenomena which may or may not be related to UFOs but 
which have come to my notice in the UFO connection. Third, I am convinced that there is an 
official cover-up of the investigations which governments have made into UFOs, certainly in 
the United States... The evidence that there are objects which have been seen in our 
atmosphere, and even on terra firma, that cannot be accounted for either as man-made objects 
or as any physical force or effect known to our scientists seems to me to be overwhelming.” 27 


Major-General Wilfred de Brouwer (Deputy Chief, Royal Belgian Air Force) 


“In any case, the Air Force has arrived to the conclusion that a certain number of anomalous 
phenomena has been produced within Belgian airspace... Until now, not a single trace of 
aggressiveness has been signaled; military or civilian air traffic has not been perturbed or 
threatened. We can therefore advance that the presumed activities to date constitute a 
concrete menace... The day will undoubtedly come when the phenomenon will be observed 
with technological means of detection and collection that won’t leave a single doubt about its 
origin...” 28 




24 LeBailly, E.B. “Unidentified Flying Objects” (No. 55); hearing by Committee on Armed Services, House of 
Representatives, April 5, 1966. 


25 Stanton, William: Quoted in Ravenna Record-Courier, Pennsylvania, April 1966, cited in Mysteries of the 
Skies, Lore and Deneault, Prentice Hall, 1968. 


26 Smith, Wilbert: Memorandum on Geo-Magnetics, November 21, 1950. 


27 Hill-Norton, 1988, Foreword to Above Top Secret, Timothy Good, William-Morrow, New York, 1988. 




28 DeBrouwer, Wilfred: UFO Wave Over Belgium — An Extraordinary Dossier (original title in French), 
SOBEPS, 1991. 




17 






3.3 UNDERSTANDING UFO SECRECY 




Introduction 


Over the past few years I have had the responsibility of briefing senior government and 
scientific leaders both in the US and abroad on the UFO/Extraterrestrial subject. 


The evidence regarding this subject is clear and overwhelming: It has not been difficult to 
make a compelling case for the reality of UFOs per se. What is a greater challenge is elucidating 
the architecture of secrecy related to UFOs (see the exposition of this matter contained in the 
paper entitled “Unacknowledged” in Section 3.4). But the greatest challenge is explaining the 
“why.” Why all the secrecy? Why a “black” or unacknowledged government within the 
government? Why hide the UFO/ET subject from public view? 


The “what” or evidence is complex but manageable. The “how” or nature of the secret 
programs is more difficult, much more complex and Byzantine. But the “why” — the reason 
behind the secrecy — is the most challenging problem of all. There is not a single answer to this 
question, but rather numerous inter-related reasons for such extraordinary secrecy. Our 
investigations and interviews with dozens of top-secret witnesses who have been within such 
programs have enabled us to understand the reasons behind this secrecy. They range from the 
fairly obvious and straight-forward to the really bizarre. Here, I wish to share some key points 
regarding this secrecy, why it has been imposed and why it is so difficult for the controlling 
interests within covert programs to reverse policy and allow disclosure. 


In The Beginning 


In the early days of the ET/UFO phenomena, military, intelligence and industrial interests had 
concerns regarding the nature of the phenomena, whether it originated from our human 
adversaries and once it was determined to be extraterrestrial, how the public would react. 


In the 1930s and 1940s this was no small matter: If these UFOs were of terrestrial origin, they 
would be evidence of an Earthly adversary with technological devices far in advance of US 
aircraft. And once it was determined to be extraterrestrial (some quarters knew this prior to the 
end of WWII) there were many more questions than answers. To wit: why were the ETs here? 
What are their intentions? How do the devices travel at such fantastic speeds and through the 
vastness of space? How might these technologies be applied to the human situation - both in war 
and in peace? How would the public react to this knowledge? What effect would the disclosure 
of these facts have on human belief systems? Political and social systems? 


From the late 1940s through the early 1950s, a concerted effort was made to figure out the 
basic science and technologies behind these spacecraft, primarily through the direct study and 
reverse-engineering of the retrieved extraterrestrial objects from New Mexico and elsewhere. It 
was immediately recognized that these objects were using laws of physics and applied 
technologies far in advance of internal combustion engines, vacuum tubes and the like. In the 
climate of the Cold War and in a world where a relatively minor advantage technologically could 
tilt the balance of power in the nuclear arms race, this was no small matter. 


Indeed, the theme of human geo-political dysfunction appears as a recurring feature of the 
secrecy related to UFOs - up to the present hour. More on this later. 


From the Wilbert Smith top secret Canadian government document of 1950, we know that 
this subject was held in greater secrecy than even the development of the hydrogen bomb. There 
was a tremendous effort underway by the late 1940s to study extraterrestrial hardware, figure out 




18 






how it operated and see what human applications might be made from such discoveries. Even 
then, the project dealing with this subject was extraordinarily covert. 


It became much more so by the early 1950s when substantial progress was made on some of 
the basic physics behind the ET craft energy and propulsion systems. The best we can estimate, it 
was then that the entire project became increasingly “black” or unacknowledged. 


The compartmentalization of the project dealing with UFOs was exponentially increased by 
the early 1950s when it was realized what it was that these covert projects actually had: Devices 
displaying physics and energy systems that - if disclosed - would forever alter life on Earth. 


By the Eisenhower era, the UFO/ET projects were increasingly compartmented away from 
legal, constitutional chain-of-command oversight and control. This means that - while we know 
from witness testimony that Eisenhower knew of the ET craft - the president (and similar leaders 
in the UK and elsewhere) were increasingly left out of the loop. Such senior elected and 
appointed leaders were confronted with (as Eisenhower called it) a sophisticated military- 
industrial complex with labyrinthine compartmented projects that were more and more out of 
their control and oversight. From direct witness testimony we know that Eisenhower, Kennedy, 
Carter and Clinton were frustrated in their attempts to penetrate such projects. 


This is also true of senior congressional leaders and investigators, foreign leaders and UN 
leadership. This is indeed an equal opportunity exclusion project - it does not matter how high 
your rank or office; if you are not deemed necessary to the project, you are not going to know 
about it. Period. 


Contrary to popular myth, since the 1960s concern over some type of public panic when 
faced with the fact that we are not alone in the universe has not been a major reason for the 
secrecy. Those in the know - notwithstanding the fantastic tales spun in UFO circles and on the 
X-Files - understand that fear of hostile ET s has also not been a significant factor. While there 
has been continued confusion in some covert circles over the ultimate purpose behind the ET 
phenomena, we know of no knowledgeable insiders who regard the ETs as a hostile threat. 


By the 1 960s - and certainly by the 1 990s - the world was very familiar with the concept of 
space travel and the popular science - fiction industry had thoroughly indoctrinated the masses 
with the idea of ET s from far away being a possibility. So why the continued secrecy? 


The Cold War is over. People would hardly be shocked to find out that we are not alone in 
the universe (the majority of people already believe this - in fact most people believe the UFOs 
are real). Besides, what could be more shocking than to live through the latter half of the 20th 
century with thousands of hydrogen bombs aimed at every major city in the world? If we can 
handle that, surely we can handle the idea that ETs are real. 


The facile explanations of fear, panic, shock and the like do not suffice to justify a level of 
secrecy so deep that even the President and his CIA Director could be denied access to the 
information. 


A Current Estimate 


Continued secrecy on the UFO subject must be related, then, to on-going anxiety related to 
the essential power dynamics of the world and how such a disclosure would impact these. 


That is, the knowledge related to UFOs/ET phenomena must have such great potential for 
changing the status quo that its continued suppression is deemed essential, at all costs. 


Going back to the early 1950s, we have found that the basic technology and physics behind 
these ET spacecraft were discovered through very intensive reverse-engineering projects. It was 
precisely at this point that the decision was made to increase the secrecy to an unprecedented 




19 






level - one which essentially took the matter out of ordinary government chain of command 
control as we know it. Why? 


Aside from the possible use of such knowledge by US/UK adversaries during the Cold War, 
it was immediately recognized that these devices were not your dad’s Oldsmobile. The basic 
physics behind the energy generation and propulsion systems were such that they could easily 
replace all existing energy generation and propulsion systems on the Earth. And with them, the 
entire geo-political and economic order. 


In the 1950s, there was no great concern over global warming, eco-system collapse, ozone 
depletion, rain forest loss, bio-diversity degradation etc. In the wake of WW II, what was needed 
was stability, not a new convulsion of the world economic, technological and geo-political order. 
Remember: those in control like to stay in control. They are risk - averse, do not like significant 
change and do not give up control and power easily. 


The disclosure of the existence of ET s, with the inevitable disclosure related to these new 
technologies soon to follow, would change the world forever - and they knew it. This was to be 
avoided at all costs. Besides, that was the era of “what is good for GM is good for America,” and 
the same would be true of big oil, big coal and the like. 


The inescapable fact is this: The disclosure of the ET presence would bring with it the certain 
release of these technologies - and that release would sweep away the entire technological 
infrastructure of the planet. The changes would be immense - and sudden. 


Fifty years later this is more true now than then. Why? Because avoiding the problem in the 
1950s - while convenient at the time - means that the situation is more tenuous now. For 
example, world dependence on oil and internal combustion technology is greater now than in 
1955. And the world economy is larger by orders of magnitude now, so any change would be 
exponentially greater - and potentially more chaotic. 


And so this is the conundrum: each decade and generation has passed this problem on to the 
next, only to find any path but continued secrecy more destabilizing than it would have been a 
decade earlier. In a maddening circle of secrecy, delay of disclosure and increasing world 
complexity and dependence on out-dated energy systems, each generation has found itself in a 
greater squeeze than the one before. As difficult as disclosure would have been in the 1950s, 
disclosure now is even more difficult. And potentially Earth-shaking in its consequences. 


The technological discoveries of the 1950s resulting from the reverse-engineering of 
extraterrestrial craft could have enabled us to completely transform the world economic, social, 
technological and environmental situation. That such advancements have been withheld from the 
public is related to the change-averse nature of the controlling hierarchy at the time - and to this 
day. 


And make no mistake, the changes would be immense. 


Consider: A technology which enables energy generation from the so-called zero point field 
and which enables every home, business, factory and vehicle to have its own source of power - 
without an external fuel source. Ever. No need for oil, gas, coal, nuclear plants or the internal 
combustion engine. And no pollution. Period. 


Consider: A technology using electro-gravitic devices which allows for above surface 
transportation - no more roadways to cover fertile farmland since transportation could take place 
totally above the surface. 


Sounds great. But in the 1950s, oil was plentiful, nobody worried too much about pollution, 
global warming was not the faintest concern and the powers that be just wanted stability. The 




20 






status quo. And besides, why risk the tectonic changes related to such a disclosure? Let a later 
generation take care of it. 


But now, we are that later generation. And 2001 is not 1949. The Earth is straining under the 
burden of a growing population - now 6 billion people - all of whom want cars, electricity, TV s 
and the like. Everyone knows that we do not have 50 more years of oil - and even if we did, the 
Earth’s ecosystem could not withstand 50 more years of such abuse. The risks of disclosure are 
now much less than the risks of secrecy. If secrecy continues much longer, the Earth’s ecosystem 
will collapse. Talk about a big change and global instability... 


Many people will consider the technological and economic impact of such a disclosure as the 
central justification of continued secrecy. After all, we are talking about a multi -trillion dollar 
per year change in the economy. The entire energy and transportation sectors of the economy 
would be revolutionized. And the energy sector - the part where non-renewable fuels are 
purchased, burned and have to be replenished - will utterly vanish. And while other industries 
will flourish, only a fool would dismiss the impact of such a multi-trillion dollar segment of the 
economy disappearing. 


Certainly the ‘vested interests’ involved in the global industrial infrastructure related to oil, 
gas, coal and internal combustion engines and public utilities is no small force in the world. 


But to understand UFO secrecy you must consider what all that money represents at its core. 
Power. Massive geo-political power. 


One must consider what will happen when every village in India (or Africa or South America 
or China) has devices which can generate large amounts of power without pollution and without 
spending huge sums of energy on fuel. The entire world will be able to develop in an 
unprecedented fashion - without pollution and without billions spent on power plants, 
transmission lines and combustible fuels. The have-nots will have. 


This would widely be considered a good thing: after all, much of world instability, warfare 
and the like is related to mind-numbing poverty and economic depravity in a world of great 
wealth. Social injustice and extreme economic disparity breeds much chaos and suffering in the 
world. These decentralized, non-polluting technologies would change that permanently. Even 
the deserts will bloom... 


But it must be remembered that geo-political power flows from technological and economic 
prowess. India has over 1 billion people and the US about one-fourth of that, but who has the 
greater geo-political power? 


As these new energy systems proliferate, the so-called third world will rapidly reach parity 
with the industrialized world of Europe, the US and Japan. This will cause a massive shift in geo- 
political power. And the industrialized world will find that it must then actually share power with 
the now down-trodden third world. 


Those in the cat-bird seat currently (and in 1950) have no interest in doing any such thing. 
We can hardly even support and share power in the United Nations. 


The release of information on the UFO/ET subject will lead to the global proliferation of new 
energy systems which will rapidly result in an equalization of power in the world. The US and 
Europe have around 600 million people. That is only 10% of the world’s population. Once the 
other 90% rise in technological and economic standing, it is clear that the geo-political power will 
shift - or equalize - to the rest of the world. Power will have to be shared. Real global collective 
security will be inevitable. It is the end of the world as we know it. 




21 






When you combine the economic and technological impact with the geo-political impact, it 
becomes obvious that the changes related to ending secrecy are truly tectonic - massive, world- 
encircling and transformative. It is not to be regarded lightly. 


But 50 years after the world could have had these new technologies — and 50 long years of 
ecological degradation, social and economic chaos and disparity — we find that we are the last 
generation in the long line of passing the cosmic hot potato known as the UFO secrecy problem. 


And here we stand, holding this hot potato, but what shall we do about it? 


To end the secrecy means vast and profound changes in virtually every aspect of human 
existence — economic, social, technological, philosophical, geo-political and so forth. But to 
continue the secrecy and the suppression of these new energy and propulsion technologies means 
something far more destabilizing: the collapse of the Earth’s ecosystem and the certain depletion 
of the fossil fuels on which we depend. And the growing anger of the have-nots, who are 
needlessly being deprived of a full and dignified life. There are no more generations to which we 
can pass this cosmic hot potato: we must deal with it and do what should have been done in 1950. 


The Webs We Weave 


As if the foregoing was not enough to justify secrecy, recall that extraordinary things have 
been done to maintain this secrecy. The infrastructure needed to maintain and expand the level of 
secrecy which can deceive presidents and CIA Directors and senior congressional leaders and 
European Prime Ministers and the like is substantial - and illegal. Let me be clear, the entity 
which controls the UFO matter and its related technologies has more power than any single 
government in the world or any single identified world leader. 


That such a situation could arise was forewarned by President Eisenhower when, in January 
1961, he cautioned us regarding the growing “military-industrial complex.” This was his last 
speech to the world as president - and he was warning us directly of a frightening situation about 
which he had personal knowledge. For Eisenhower had seen the ET craft and deceased ET 
bodies. He knew of the covert programs dealing with the situation. But he also knew that he had 
lost control of these projects and that they were lying to him about the extent and full nature of 
their research and development activities. 


Indeed, the current state-of-the-art in secrecy is a hybrid, quasi-government, quasi privatized 
operation which is international — and functions outside of the purview of any single agency or 
any single government. “The Government” — as you and I and Thomas Jefferson may think of it 
— is really quite outside the loop. Rather, a select, tightly controlled and compartmentalized 
‘black’ or unacknowledged project controls these matters. Access is by inclusion alone and if you 
are not included, it does not matter if you are CIA Director, President, Chairman of Senate 
Foreign Relations or UN Secretary General, you simply will not know about or have access to 
these projects. 


Indeed the situation is so dire that senior Joint Chiefs of Staff leaders in the Pentagon who I 
have briefed have no more access to such projects than any other civilian - unless they are on the 
“inside” for some reason. But this is rare. 


To acquire and maintain such power all types of things have been done. We are reminded of 
that Robert Frost poem in which he describes “the webs we weave...” But how does such an 
entity extract itself from such a web of secrecy, deceit, lies and insubordination? 


To be specific, this group has usurped power and rights not legally granted to it. It is extra- 
constitutional, both in the US and in the UK and other countries around the world. 




22 






I will grant the possibility that, at least initially, this covert undertaking was designed to 
maintain secrecy and avoid instability. But the risks of inadvertent leaks — or a national or world 
leader deciding legally that it was time for disclosure — made it essential to weave a web of 
greater and greater secrecy and of illegal operations. And now the web has closed in on the 
operation itself. 


That is, the complexity of the compartmentalized projects, the degree of unconstitutional and 
unauthorized activity, the “privatization” (or theft) by corporate partners (the “industrial” part of 
the military- industrial complex) of advanced technologies, the continued lying to legally elected 
and appointed leaders and to the public — all of these and more have contributed to a psychology 
of continued secrecy — because disclosure would expose the greatest scandal in recorded 
history. 


For example, how would the public react to the fact that the degradation of the entire Earth’s 
ecosystem and the irretrievable loss of thousands of species of plants and animals now extinct due 
to pollution, has been utterly unnecessary — and could have been avoided if only an honest 
release of this information had occurred in the 1950s? 


Flow would society react to the knowledge that trillions of dollars have been spent on 
unauthorized, unconstitutional projects over the years? And that these taxpayer dollars have been 
used by coiporate partners in this secrecy to develop spin-off technologies based on the study of 
ET objects that were later patented and used in highly profitable technologies? Not only have the 
taxpayers been defrauded, they have then been made to pay a premium for such breakthroughs 
that were the result of research paid for by them! And this does not address the intellectual 
property theft of such technologies from the ETs. While the basic energy generation and 
propulsion technologies have been withheld, these corporate partners have profited wildly from 
other breakthroughs and benefits in electronics, miniaturization and related areas. Such covert 
technology transfers constitutes a multi-trillion dollar theft of technologies that really should be 
public domain since taxpayers have paid for it. 


And how would the public react to the fact that the multi-billion dollar space program, using 
internal combustion rockets and the like, has been a primitive and unnecessary experiment since 
much more advanced technologies and propulsion systems were in existence before we ever went 
to the moon? NASA and related agencies have, for the most part, been as much a victim of this 
secrecy as has the rest of the government and the public. Only a small, very compartmentalized 
fraction of NASA people know of the real ET technologies hidden away in these projects. 
Certainly my uncle, who helped design the lunar module which took Neil Armstrong to the moon, 
was as much a victim an anyone insofar as he was denied access to these technological 
breakthroughs. Fie had to rely on the old physics and the old internal combustion jet thruster 
technologies just like everyone else. What a shame. 


The inescapable reality is this: This secret project, no matter how well intentioned initially, 
got carried away with its own secret power. It abused this power. It has hijacked our future for 
fifty years. 


In fact, the quiet coup d’etat of the late 1940s and early 1950s, once exposed, could result in 
real instability today. 


But the situation is actually much worse than this. All that is written above is dwarfed by a 
larger problem: The covert group running these UFO related black projects have also had 
exclusive sway over the early days of an embryonic extraterrestrial-human relationship. And it 
has been tragically mismanaged — nearly to the point of genuine global catastrophe. 


For what happens when an unelected, unappointed, self-selecting, militarily oriented group 
alone has to deal with inter-species relations between humans and ETs? Well, as in most areas, if 




23 






you wear rose-colored glasses the entire world looks red. And if you are wearing military 
glasses, every new and uncontrolled development will be seen as a potential or real military 
threat. 


The nature of such a group — which is inordinately controlled and incestuous — is that it is 
homogenous in world-view and mind-set. Power and control are preeminent qualities. Such 
extreme secrecy creates a very dangerous milieu in which checks and balances, give and take, are 
utterly lacking. And in such an environment, very dangerous decisions can be made with 
inadequate feedback, discussion or insight from needed perspectives that are, per force, excluded. 


In such an environment of extreme secrecy, militarism and paranoia, we have found that 
immensely dangerous actions have been taken against the ETs. Indeed, we have multiple inside 
sources who have described to us the use of increasingly advanced technologies to track, target 
and destroy extraterrestrial assets. If there is even a 10% chance that this is true ( I am convinced 
it is 100% accurate) we are dealing with a global diplomatic and social crisis which is utterly out 
of our control but which puts the entire planet at risk. 


Remember, covert reverse-engineering projects have resulted in huge quantum leaps forward 
in technologies that, once applied to military systems, could be a real threat to ETs who may be 
here peacefully. The attempts to rapidly militarize space are likely a result of a myopic, 
militaristic and paranoid view of extraterrestrial projects and intentions. If left unchecked, it can 
only result in catastrophe. 


Indeed this group, no matter how well-intentioned, is in urgent need of exposure so that 
global statesmen with a new perspective can intercede in this situation. While we see no 
evidence that the ET civilizations are at all hostile, it is also clear that it is unlikely that they will 
allow unfettered and growing interference with their operations. Self-defense is likely a universal 
quality. And while tremendous restraint has been shown by the ET s thus far, might there be a 
“cosmic trip wire” if human covert technologies begin to reach parity and we are using such 
advanced technologies in a bellicose fashion? The prospect is sobering. 


We need our Jimmy Carters and Dalai Lammas and other international statesmen involved 
with so vast a problem. But if access is denied -and the subject remains undisclosed and off the 
global radar screen — we are left with the unelected few to decide our fate and act on our behalf. 
This must change, and soon. 


In the final analysis, while the changes attendant such a disclosure related to UFOs and ETs 
would be massive and profoundly impact virtually every aspect of life on Earth, it is still the right 
thing to do. Secrecy has taken on a life of its own — it is a growing cancer which needs to be 
cured before it destroys the life of Earth and all who dwell on her. 


The reasons for secrecy are clear: Global power, economic and technological control, geo- 
political status quo, the fear of scandal surrounding the exposure of such projects and their 
behavior and so forth. 


But the one thing more dangerous than disclosure is continued secrecy. The Earth is dying 
because we are killing her. The top 250 people and families in the world have the net worth of 
2.5 billion of our poorest citizens. The promising relationship between humanity and people from 
other planets is being militarized and strained by failed thinking and failed programs run 
completely in secret. 


As daunting as disclosure may be, with all its potential for short-term instability and change, 
continued secrecy means that we will destroy the Earth through our folly and greed. The future 
of humanity, which has been delayed and hijacked for the past 50 years, cannot be hijacked for 50 
more. For we do not have 50 more years - the Earth’s ecosystem will collapse before then. 




24 






There are no easy choices. But there is one right one. Will you help us make it? 


3.4 UNACKNOWLEDGED 


Can the government keep a secret? 


A really big secret — the biggest of all time? When the peccadilloes of every politician and 
government leader are prime time news, could the government hide from us the most astounding 
discovery in the history of the world — the existence of extraterrestrial life? 


Well, yes — and no. 


First, the concept of government must be redefined, because there exists the government of 
“we the people,” elected and appointed officials, public representatives, the executive, legislative 
and judicial branches, etc., etc., a la your standard junior high civics course. 


But then, there is also the unacknowledged “government:” the “government” of deep cover, 
deep black projects, contract agents and companies, and shadowy mid-level functionaries whose 
task it is to ensure that the government of ‘we the people’ knows little or nothing about the 
unacknowledged “government.” 


The right hand does not know — or often want to know — what the left hand is doing... 


But we’re getting a little ahead of ourselves now. First some background. 


For nearly eleven years I have quietly researched how real secrecy is maintained, in the latter 
half of the twentieth century. What I have found is astonishing, and frankly unbelievable. What 
you are about to read is the truth — but I admit that 1 would not have believed it had someone 
told me this 1 0 years ago. Y ou may want to read the rest of this article as if it were a fictional 
story. You may feel more comfortable looking at all of this from a distance. But let some part of 
you know that this is the truth. 


This section is not about whether UFOs/ETs are real, or are visiting Earth. Let’s get this out 
of the way first, since it is the easy part: UFOs are real; they are of extraterrestrial origin; they 
have been around for decades (if not centuries); there is no evidence that they are hostile; there is 
probably more than one type of life form visiting us; and aspects of the “government” have 
known this for 50 years, at least. 


The more difficult part of this subject is getting your mind around the fact that something this 
extraordinary is real, and yet remains somehow unreal, hidden, secret, enigmatic. That the 
official government — and the official keepers of truth in the media and science — have been 
deceived for this long is a tribute to the sophistication, depth, breadth and ubiquity of a secret 
program unparalleled in history. 


Indeed, the story of how — and why — this deception has existed exceeds the extraterrestrial 
phenomenon itself in bizarreness, mystery and incredulity. In fact, it seems that the effectiveness 
of the secrecy is itself related to the stunning incredulity of the nature of the secrecy. Put another 
way, the whys, hows, and wherefores of these secret projects are so bizarre and unbelievable, that 
they provide their own best cover: no one would believe it even if they came upon it. It is 
absolutely over the top. 


To be honest, my own first reaction to what you are about to read was, “Yeah, right...” But 
then confirmation after confirmation, and independent corroboration after independent 
corroboration convinced me of it. And then I was saying, “Oh God...” 


Space here only permits me to share with you the highlights of 6 years of intense, behind-the- 
scenes research. Someday, I hope the entire story can be told, names and all, but for now allow 




25 






me to paint for you a broad picture, and some of the details. This information comes from 
personal, private and exquisitely sensitive meetings and long discussions with very senior and 
relevant military, intelligence, political and private coiporate sources. The search for truth 
regarding these secret projects has brought me to heads of state, royalty, CIA officials, NSA 
operatives, US and foreign military leaders, political leaders and high-tech coiporate contractors. 
The process has been exhaustive, relentless and mind-blowing. Safety and prudence requires that 
I leave their names out of this for now; by the time you finish reading this, the reason will be 
obvious. 


Beginning at least as early as World War II, we found that certain officials in the US 
government knew that we were not alone, that there were advanced machines flying around in 
certain regions of the WWII conflict which were not ours, and not theirs. A medical colleague 
and friend, whose relative was a celebrated WWII pilot, has told me that this pilot was sent to 
Europe by the president to figure out what these so-called “foo” fighters were. He reported back 
to the president that they were extraterrestrial spacecraft. 


From there on, it gets more and more strange. A retired general, who later became right hand 
man to a certain CIA director, told me this: That as a military officer in 1946, he was responsible 
for writing “non-responsive” letters regarding a series of day time sightings of UFOs over Idaho. 
He said people knew the UFOs were real, but soon a Cold War was on, and later a few hot wars 
ensued, and everyone was concerned with global thermonuclear war — so who had time to worry 
about these enigmatic but harmless ETs? 


Who indeed? 


Multiple new, independently corroborating witnesses told us of the crash and retrieval of ET 
spacecraft in 1947 in New Mexico and in 1948 in Kingman Arizona. Now this really got 
someone’s attention, and the name of the game was, henceforth, advanced extraterrestrial 
technolog}’. How does it work; what can it be used for; how will they use it; what if the Soviets 
figure it out before we do; what if it leaks out and some new Hitler uses it to dominate the world; 
what if people panic when they learn of it; what if? 


And a million more questions, at the time all unanswered. 


And thus was bom the secret project of the millennium. 


After all, at the time, we were working on the development of the hydrogen bomb — and our 
arch enemy the Soviets were hot on our tail. What could be more destabilizing to an already 
fragile world order than the introduction of inter-stellar propulsion technology to a world of 
vacuum tubes and internal combustion engines? To say we were facing a quantum leap in 
technological capability is an understatement. And we wanted it safely for ourselves. 


So, “National Security” demanded that this entire matter be kept quiet at all costs. And no 
cost was spared in doing so. 


But there was one very large and busy fly in this ointment: The ETs were flying, sometimes in 
formation, with thousands of witnesses, over the skies of America, and the rest of the world. 
Now, how do you hide that? 


The mind hides it. In an Orwellian twist, it was found from past psychological warfare efforts 
during WWII that, indeed, if you tell a lie often enough, especially if told by ‘respected’ authority 
figures, the people will believe it. It appears that one of the masters of psychological warfare 
during WWII was put in charge of this in the late 1940s. General Walter Bedell Smith helped 
coordinate the psychological warfare components of this problem, and helped launch the big lie: 
UFOs, even though millions have seen them, do not exist. 




26 






For every sighting that made its way into public awareness, there would be official denial and, 
worse, ridicule of the event and the observers. Harvard Astronomer Donald Menzel was trotted 
out to tell the world that it was all hysteria, that UFOs were not real, that it was all poppycock. 


So well into the 1950s, a relatively small group of people knew the truth, and kept the truth to 
themselves. When an event occurred which got the media’s attention, authority figures would 
deny and ridicule it. Since humans are generally insecure social creatures, and more like 
lemmings that we would like to admit, it became clear that if you wanted to avoid embarrassment, 
ridicule and social estrangement, you kept quiet about UFOs, even if you had seen one up close 
and personal. Add to this the active encouragement of wacky stories and bizarre tall tales within 
the civilian UFO subculture, aided by the naturally occurring level of crazies and crack-pots in 
society generally and, well, you get the picture. Any respectable person -and especially the 
“respectable” media, scientists and political leaders — would have to view this as the “topic non 
grata” to avoid. 


(Having gone through what I have in the past 1 1 years, I really can’t say 1 blame them...) 


But this is all very conventional stuff, really. The bizarre twists began in the 1950s, when a 
new model for covert projects evolved; a Frankenstein was created, but now it has gotten a will of 
its own, has gotten up off the table, breaking all restraints, and is moving around amongst us. 


In late 1993 and into 1994, 1995 and 1996, from one meeting to another, a shocking truth 
emerged. Somehow on the way to the 90s, something awful had happened: The entire matter had 
been largely privatized, was 10 levels deep black and was operating outside the constitutional 
chain of command of the US or any other government. Now, I know what you are thinking — I 
thought the same at first — but hear me out. 


Within a few months of that initial meeting in July of 1993, 1 and/or members of our team had 
met with very, very senior officials of the CIA, Congress, the Clinton Administration, the UN, the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the military in England and elsewhere. Our initial logic was first to make 
the case to these folks that since the Cold War was over, a window of opportunity had opened 
through which a major disclosure on this matter could be made. The time had come to return this 
matter to the international community. Right? Wrong! Virtually without exception, leaders in 
the military, intelligence fields, politics and national security areas agreed that the time had come 
for the truth to be told. Problem is, they had no access to the truth, or the data, or the cases, or the 
technology or the deceased ET bodies in storage (Yes, we know where they are and it is not 
Wright Patterson Air Force Base any longer). 


Those who I thought would be in the loop were out, and the ones running the show were a 
strange combination of covert operatives and private corporate interests. From then on it was 
through the looking glass we go. 


My ancestors fought in the American Revolution in North Carolina. They fought for the 
establishment of a constitutional, representative form of government; now I wondered what had 
happened to the constitution. Like a very bad dream, I kept hoping to awaken to find it was not 
true. How could I share this with others? Who would believe it? It was bad enough for a doctor 
in NC to maintain that we were being visited by advanced extraterrestrial life forms, but this? 


I asked a friend who was on the staff of President Reagan’s National Security Council how 
this could be true. How could some of the most powerful people in the world — in government, 
in the military, the senior intelligence and national security areas — not only not know about this, 
but have no access to this information? I asked him if we let the President know exactly who out 
there really does know about this and he called them into the Oval Office and said, “I am the 
President of the United States and I want you to tell me everything you know about this matter,” 
what would they do? 




27 






He laughed and said, “Steve, if they don’t want the President to know, they will simply lie to 
the president and say no such thing exists. It’s done all the time...” I was stunned by the cynicism 
of this, and by the clear breech in constitutional law. 


Under the ruse of “plausible deniability” to “protect” senior government officials, this 
apparently is done in certain sensitive areas, and the UFO matter is the most sensitive of all. 


In a meeting with a very senior leader in the intelligence community, whose position any one 
in the public would assume allowed him to know every bit of important secret information, I 
discovered that, even though this official knew the matter was real, that the UFOs were real, he 
had no access to either past or current information or projects dealing with the ET subject. Again, 
I was stunned. 


Ditto for very senior Senate investigators with subpoena power and top secret clearance. Ditto 
for people at the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Ditto for senior UN people. Ditto for senior Ministry of 
Defense officials in Great Britain. Ditto for heads of state. 


And so it went, on and on. No deception this; these meetings were arranged by personal, 
back-door contacts and friends. Ironically, these leaders were turning to us for information, 
analysis and, strangely, action, to get this secret mess fixed. My pointing out that I am only a 
country doctor from North Carolina, with a wife, four kids, a minivan and a golden retriever did 
not change this reality. So in my ‘spare’ time, I have done what I could. 


UNACKNOWLEDGED SPECIAL ACCESS PROJECTS. USAPS. This term — concept, 
really — took some time to take hold. Call me naive, but I really believe in democracy and the 
constitution, the office of the president, the importance of a congress and so on. But such quaint 
notions at some point had to be assimilated in my mind and reconciled with this new reality: That 
the president, and congress and the courts and the UN and all the other world leaders exist. They 
worry about taxes, money, programs of this sort or another. But the really big stuff - leave them 
out of it. After all, these people come and go every 2 or 4 years. What they don’t know won’t 
hurt them; besides, we’re doing them a favor by keeping them innocent of any knowledge of 
these secret projects. At any rate, these projects are UNACKNOWLEDGED, and they don’t 
really exist at all... 


What is a USAP? It is a top secret, compartmentalized project requiring special access even 
for those with a top secret clearance, AND it is unacknowledged. This means that if someone - 
anyone- including your superiors, including the commander and chief, the president, asks you 
about it, you reply that no such project exists. You lie. 


People in these USAPS are dead serious about keeping their project secret, and will do nearly 
anything to keep the story covered, and to keep both other officials and the public disinformed. 


And the grand daddy of all USAPS is the UFO/ET matter. 


Remember that a top secret Canadian document written by Wilbert Smith in 1950 stated that 
he had found that a secret US group was working on the UFO matter, including the technology 
behind the UFOs, and that this was the most secret undertaking in the US government, exceeding 
even the secrecy surrounding the development of the H-bomb. 


Now imagine if you will, this project 50 years later. A lot of water has gone beneath the 
bridge. There has been 50 years and countless billions spent on various aspects of the project: 
reverse engineering extraterrestrial technology to figure out how it works; experiments with non- 
linear propulsion and communications systems; massive public disinformation efforts and the 
deceit of constitutionally elected and appointed officials and bodies; and more. 


Add to this active disinformation — the hoaxing or simulation of false ET events, to deceive 
the public and serve as decoys, thus taking peoples’ attention away from the real action. 




28 






Abductions. Mutilations. Hybrid babies floating in space and in underground bases. Secret pacts 
between one-world — government forces and the sinister aliens. And so forth ad nauseam. 
Tragically, the tabloid media, book publishers, the UFO subculture/industry and the general 
public eat this stuff up by the gallon measure. 


Not only does this nonsense serve as effective decoys to the unfunded and unprofessional 
civilian UFO subculture, it creates the patina of craziness and tawdriness needed to keep 
“respectable” scientists, mainstream media and public officials silent. It keeps the whole matter 
safely off their radar screens. 


From the mid- 1940s to the mid to late 1950s, as these matters go, this secret group was 
somewhat conventional. A number of officials in the Truman and Eisenhower administrations 
knew about it and were involved. It was genuinely felt to be imperative to the national security 
that this matter be kept quiet for a while. And I believe they were acting in good faith, and within 
the reasonable limits of our constitutional democracy. 


But apparently sometime in the mid to late Eisenhower years, a pattern developed where those 
who legally should be in the loop were shoved out. We have more than one corroborating source 
that this was the case in the late Eisenhower years and the Kennedy Administration. 


First hand witnesses have told us that Eisenhower was furious that he was being kept in the 
dark about a number of important aspects of the UFO/ET matter. He had seen the ET spacecraft 
and bodies, and yet he found that extraordinary projects were under way, and he was out of the 
loop. Is it any wonder then that, notwithstanding the fact that he was a five star general and 
conservative Republican, he warned of the “military-industrial complex” in his last address to the 
nation as president? People forget that it was this five star general — and not Abby Hoffman — 
who coined the term military-industrial complex, first warning us of the dangers of its excesses. 
Why? Because he had seen those excesses up close and personal. 


Fast forward to June of 1963. Kennedy is flying to Berlin to deliver his famous speech 
proclaiming, “I am a Berliner.” On board Air Force One is a military man who relates the 
following: Kennedy, on the long flight, at one point began discussing the UFO matter with this 
military officer. He admitted that he knew the UFOs were real, had seen the evidence, but then 
astonished the officer by stating that “the whole matter is out of my hands, and I don’t know 
why...” Kennedy said that he wanted the truth to come out, but that he couldn’t do it. And this is 
the President of the United States, the Commander in Chief of the armed forces, stating that the 
matter is out of his hands, and he doesn’t know why. I wonder if he found out before he was 
killed later that year. 


Eisenhower, Kennedy, Clinton Administration figures, military leaders, intelligence leaders, 
foreign leaders. All out of the loop. But all know its real. What is going on? 


USAPS is only part of the story. The smaller part. Remember Eisenhower warning of the 
military-industrial complex? Operative word: industrial, private, privatized. In discussing this 
matter with a former head of the Ministry of Defense in Great Britain in July of 1995, 1 found that 
he was similarly kept out of the loop. We found once again that the really secret stuff was kept 
from even a man who was head of MI5 and the MoD. The answer existed in part with USAPS, 
but more largely with private contract entities. 


The US government builds almost nothing (thank goodness...). The B2 Stealth bomber is not 
built by the US government, but FOR the US government by private industry. And private 
industry keeps secrets even better than USAPS. It makes sense: After all these years no body 
knows the formula for Coca Cola. Not even the President of the United States can get it. The 
formula is secret, and private. 




29 






Now if you will, combine the proprietary power of private secrets with a combined liaison 
with USAPS and you build a covert fortress which is virtually impenetrable. Because if you try 
to get at it through the private sector, it is protected by proprietary privilege. And if you try to get 
to it through the public sector-government it is hidden in USAPS, and the “government” as you 
and I ordinarily thi nk of it is clueless. 


And from personal experience 1 can tell you that if you inform the leaders of this, they will 
hold their heads in their hands and say, as I once did, “Oh my God...” 


So, what is the essential profde of this covert operation? 


Description: This group is a quasi-govemmental, USAPS related, quasi-private entity 


operating internationally /transnationally. The majority of operations are centered in private 
industrial “work for others” contract projects related to the understanding and application of 
advanced extraterrestrial technologies. Related compartmentalized units, which are also USAPS, 
are involved in disinformation, public deception, active disinformation, so-called abductions and 
mutilations, reconnaissance and UFO tracking, space-based weapons systems and specialized 
liaison groups (for example to media, political leaders, the scientific community, the coiporate 
world, etc.). Think of this entity as a hybrid between government, USAPS, and private industry. 


The group consists primarily of mid-level USAPS-related military and intelligence operatives, 
USAPS or black units within certain high-tech corporate entities, and select liaisons within the 
international policy analysis community, certain religious groups, the scientific community and 
the media, among others. The identities of some of these entities and individuals are known to us, 
though most remain unidentified. 


Approximately 1/3 to 1/2 or those comprising the decision-making body are now in favor of a 
public disclosure of some type on this matter; these are, in general, the younger members who 
have less complicity in past excesses. The remaining members are opposed or ambivalent 
regarding a near-term disclosure. 


Actual policy and decision-making seems to rest predominantly at this time in the private, 
civilian sector, as opposed to USAP-related military and intelligence officials, though some 
information indicates that there is significant relative autonomy in certain areas of operations. It 
is our current assessment that a rising degree of debate exists regarding certain covert operations 
and the advisability of a disclosure. 


Many compartmentalized operations within “black” or USAPS projects are structured so that 
those working on the task may be unaware that it is UFO/ET related. For example, some aspects 
of the so-called “Star Wars” effort, or SDI, are intended to target extraterrestrial spacecraft that 
come into close proximity to Earth, but the vast majority of scientists and workers in the SDI 
program are unaware of this. 


We have learned from three separate, corroborating sources that since the early 1990s, at least 
2 extraterrestrial spacecraft have been targeted and destroyed by experimental space-based 
weapons systems. 


The vast majority of political leaders, including White Flouse officials, military leaders, 
congressional leaders, UN leaders and other world leaders are not routinely briefed on this matter. 
When and if inquiries are made, they are told nothing about the operations, nor is the existence of 
any operation confirmed to them. In general the nature of this covert entity ensures that such 
leaders do not even know to whom such inquiries should be addressed. 


International cooperation exists to a wide extent, though some witnesses state that certain 
countries, particularly China, have aggressively pursued somewhat independent agendas. 




30 






Major bases of operations, apart from widely diversified private sites, include Edwards Air 
Force Base in California, Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada, particularly S4 and adjacent facilities, 
Fos Alamos New Mexico, Fort Fluachuca Arizona (Army Intelligence Headquarters), the 
Redstone Arsenal in Alabama, and a relatively new, expanding underground facility accessible 
only by air in a remote area of Utah, among others. Additional facilities and operations centers 
exist in a number of other countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, and Russia. 
Numerous agencies have deep cover, black, USAPS related units involved with these operations, 
including the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), the National Security Agency (NS A), the 
CIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), the Air Force Office of Special Investigations 
(AFOSI), Naval Intelligence, Army Intelligence, Air Force Intelligence, the FBI, and a group 
known as MAJI control. An even more extensive list of private, civilian and corporate entities 
have significant involvement. The majority of scientific, technical and advanced technology 
operations are centered in the civilian industrial and research firms. Significant — and lethal — 
security is provided by private contractors. 


The majority of personnel as well as the leadership of most if not all of these agencies and 
private groups are uninvolved and unaware of these compartmentalized, unacknowledged 
operations. For this reason, sweeping accusations related to any particular agency or coiporate 
entity are wholly unwarranted. “Plausible deniability” exists at many levels. Moreover, 
specialization and compartmentalization allows a number of operations to exist without those 
involved knowing that their task is related to the UFO/ET subject. 


Both positive inducements to cooperate and penalties for violating secrecy are extraordinary. 
A senior military source has related to us that at least 10,000 people have received $1 million or 
more each to ensure their cooperation, over the past few decades. Regarding penalties, we know 
of more than one credible case where individuals have had their families threatened should they 
break the code of silence, and we have learned of two recent alleged ‘suicides’ at a private 
contract industrial firm which occurred after the victims began to violate secrecy on a reverse- 
engineering project related to ET technology. 


Funding: A senior congressional investigator has privately related to us that “black budget” 
funds apparently are used for this and similar operations which are USAPS. This ‘black budget’ 
involves conservatively $10 billion, and may exceed $80 billion per year. The amount dedicated 
to the UFO/ET operation specifically is u nk nown at this time. Additionally, significant funds are 
derived from overseas sources and private and institutional sources. Amounts deriving from 
these activities are also u nk nown by us. 


This is part of what we know at this time. Obviously, there are more questions than answers 
here, and what is unknown exceeds what is known. Nevertheless, we have, I believe, made 
significant and historic advances in understanding how this entity operates. I have presented this 
general assessment to a number of important military, political and policy institute figures, and 
was surprised that it was regarded as quite accurate and in agreement with independent 
assessments arrived at separately by them. 


But the larger question is why? As in life in general, the whats, whos and hows are always 
easier than the whys. Why the continued secrecy and deception? 


I am reluctant to go too much further out on this limb, because here we get into questions 
related to ultimate motive and purpose, which is always a rather squishy area, ill-defined in the 
best of cases. And this, I am afraid, is no ordinary matter, and the emotions, motives and purpose 
behind such extraordinary and high-stakes actions are likely complex and dissonant. Indeed, such 
motives are likely a very mixed bag, ranging from the initially noble and well-intentioned, to the 
depraved. 




31 






Sen. Barry Goldwater 29 told me in 1994 that the secrecy surrounding the ET subject was “a 
damn mistake then and a damn mistake now...” I am inclined to agree with the senator here, but 
the drive for secrecy was not and is not altogether rooted in stupidity. Rather, I see it rooted in 
fear and a lack of trust. 


While I generally dislike psycho-babble, I believe the psychology of all of this is important. It 
is my belief that secrecy, especially extreme secrecy of this degree, is always a symptom of 
illness. If you have secrets in your family, it is a sickness, bom out of fear, insecurity and 
distrust. This, I feel, can be extended to communities, companies, and societies. Ultimately, the 
drive for secrecy is a symptom of a deeper malaise derived from a fundamental lack of trust, and 
an abundance of fear and insecurity. 


In the case of UFOs/ET, the early days of the 1940s and 1950s were, I sense, a time of fear 
bordering on The USSR was expanding its empire, and arming itself to the teeth with bigger and 
deadlier nuclear weapons. And they were beating us in the race into space. 


Now along come extraterrestrial spacecraft, which are retrieved along with deceased (and one 
living) life form. Panic. Fear. Confusion. Countless unanswered questions arise, all tinged with 
fear. 


Why are they here? How will the public react? How can we secure their technology — and 
keep it from our mortal enemies? How can we tell the people that the most powerful air force in 
the world cannot control its airspace? What will happen to religious belief? To the economic 
order? To political stability? To the keepers of current technology? To.... 


It is my opinion that the early days of secrecy were predictable, even understandable, and 
possibly even justifiable. 


But as the decades rolled by, and especially with the end of the Cold War, fear alone does not 
fully explain the secrecy. After all, 1996 is not 1946 — we have been to space, landed on the 
moon, detected planets around other star systems, found the building blocks of life in far-away 
space, and about 50% of the population believe the UFOs are real. And the soviet empire has 
collapsed. 


I believe two other significant factors are at play now: Greed and control, and the inertia of 
decades of secrecy. 


Greed and control are easily understood: Imagine being involved with a project unraveling and 
then applying advanced extraterrestrial technology. The power and economic impact — and thus 
value — of such technology exceeds the combined significance of the internal combustion 
engine, electricity, the computer chip and all forms of telecommunications. We are talking about 
the technology of the next millennium. You think the computer/information age revolution is 
big? Fasten your seat belts, because down the road — sooner or later — will be the non-linear, 
zero point technological revolutions based on advanced ET technologies. 


No wonder the corporate, military-industrial complex interest and secrecy exceeds even that of 
the government related USAPS. The formula for Coca Cola has nothing on this. 


The bureaucratic inertia of large secret operations is yet another matter. After decades of 
operations, and of lies, public deceptions and worse, how does such a group unravel all the webs 
it has weaved? There is a certain addictive allure to secret power for some types of people; they 
are charged by having and knowing secrets. And there is the specter of a sort of cosmic 




29 See a letter by Senator Goldwater in 1975 indicating his interest and frustration with this subject in Appendix 
I (Document A 1.2). 




32 






Watergate, with all manner of people calling for this head or that. It becomes easier to maintain 
the status quo, something all bureaucracies are adept at doing. 


And even now there is fear. Not just fear of being exposed in the age of Watergate, this -gate 
and that-gate, but a rather xenophobic and primitive fear of the u nk nown. Who are these 
humanoids, why are they here; how dare they enter our airspace without our permission! 
Humanity has a long tradition of fearing - and hating - that which is different, unknown, from 
elsewhere. Witness the still-rampant racial, ethnic, religious, and nationalistic prejudice and 
hatred that ravage the world of humanity. There is an almost ingrained xenophobic response to 
the unknown and that which is different. And it is certain that the ETs are more different from us 
than, say, Protestants are from Catholics in Ireland. 


I once asked a physicist involved with military and intelligence operations related to UFOs 
why we were attempting to destroy these spacecraft with advanced space-based weapons. He 
immediately became agitated and said, “Those cowboys running this thing are so arrogant, so out 
of control, that they view any entry by a UFO into our air space as an offense worthy of a hostile 
response. And they are going to get us into an inter-planetary conflict if we are not careful...” 


And so it goes. Fear. Fear of the u nk nown. Greed and control. Institutional inertia. These are 
a few of what I see as the current animating forces driving the continued secrecy. 


But where to from here? How to transform this situation from extreme secrecy to disclosure? 


There is an old Chinese proverb that says, “Unless we change directions, we are likely to end 
up where we are going.” How true. And where we are going in this area is immensely 
dangerous. Extreme secrecy, especially on something this far-reaching and important, 
undermines democracy, subverts the constitution, concentrates enormous technological power in 
the hands of the unelected few and puts the entire planet in harms way. This must end. 


I suggest that the Administration, in cooperation with Congress, sponsor open hearings where 
these witnesses, who now number over 400, could openly testify to what they know about the 
UFO/ET matter. This would constitute a definitive disclosure, I assure you. In this regard, you 
can help in two ways: 


1) Write the President and ask that he issue an executive order permitting these witnesses 
to safely come forward, and at the same time write your Senator and Congressman and 
request that they sponsor open hearings where these witnesses may speak. 


2) Contact us immediately if you or someone you know may be a current or former 
government, military or corporate witness. We have protective measures in place, and 
the more witnesses we have, the stronger the case — and the greater the margin of 
safety for all concerned. Please help us if you can. 


The international community and the United Nations should similarly hold open hearings on 
this matter. We have witnesses from all over the world, and ideally, an international disclosure 
and evidence gathering effort should begin immediately. 


The world community should not sit by passively, thus abdicating responsibility to secret 
operations. The Disclosure Project has for five years been involved in a citizens diplomacy 
effort, and made significant breakthroughs in developing protocols to contact these extraterrestrial 
visitors. Rather than passively watching this as some distant “phenomenon,” we should attempt 
to establish communication with these life forms, and begin the early stages of an open inter- 
planetary relationship. If you are interested in learning more about how you can be involved in 
such a research and diplomacy effort, contact us. 


Fastly, we must be prepared to forgive. There is nothing to be gained by calling for severe 
retribution for those involved with either current or past secrecy. Many may have felt they were 




33 






doing the right thing at the time, and even currently. We do not need a cosmic Watergate, and we 
must collectively renounce it. We should be willing to look to the moment and to the future, and 
forgive the past. There is precedent for this: In the early days of the Clinton Administration, there 
were sweeping disclosures about past excesses and crazy experiments within the Department of 
Energy, and the former Atomic Energy Commission. We learned of plutonium being put on the 
oatmeal of kids in oiphanages, of deliberate radiation releases in populated areas to see “what 
would happen,” and so forth. This truth came out, and the world did not end. Nobody had to go 
to jail. The government did not collapse, and the sky did not fall. Let us move forward, with 
some real compassion and forgiveness, and begin this century anew. 


Ultimately, if the people will lead, the leaders will follow. Courage, vision and perseverance 
are needed to transform this situation, and create a time of openness, trust and to lay the 
foundation for both global and inter-planetary peace. If our leaders currently lack this courage 
and vision, then we must manifest it for them. The stakes are too high to look the other way 
while our future is stolen from us. The future of life on Earth, and our place in the cosmos are at 
risk. Together, let us work to secure it, for our children and our children’s children. 


3.5 PROJECTS AND FACILITIES RELATED TO THE 
UFO/EXTRATERRESTRIAL MATTER 


Copyright 1998 Steven M. Greer M.D, Prepared for Congress, 30 August 1996 


EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE AND RELATED FACILITIES 


Government Facilities: 


Edwards AFB 
Haystack Butt 
China Lake 
George AFB 
Norton AFB 


Table Top Mountain Observatory (NASA) 


Blackjack Control 
Aerospace Facilities: 


Northrop "Anthill" (Tejon Ranch) 


McDonnald Douglas Llano Plant 
Lockheed-Martin Helendale Plant 
Phillips Labs (North Edwards facility) 


THE NELLIS COMPLEX 


Area 51/S4 


Pahute Mesa and Area 1 9 
Groom Lake 


NEW MEXICO FACILITIES 


Los Alamos National Laboratories 
Kirtland Air Force Base 


Sandia National Laboratories (SNL), Defense Nuclear Agency 
Phillips Labs 


Manzano Mountain Weapons Storage Facility, and underground complex 
Coyote Canyon Test Site (N. end of Manzano) 


White Sands Complex 




34 






ARIZONA 


Fort Huachuca, underground storage facility, NS A and Army Intelligence complex 
near Ft. Huachuca underground storage of extraterrestrial spacecraft and previously 
autopsied extraterrestrial life forms 


Others 


Utah underground complex southwest of Salt Lake City, accessible only by air 
Redstone Arsenal underground complex Alabama 
Lawrence Livermore Labs 


Cheyenne Mountain Colorado Deep Space Network, dedicated console for tracking UFOs 


US Government Agencies with Current or Past Involvement 


(Activities are compartmentalized into super-secret USAPS -Unacknowledged Special 
Access Projects, which means that they are not acknowledged to anyone, even those senior in the 
chain of command.) 


NRO (National Reconnaissance Office) 


NSA (National Security Agency) 


CIA 


Military Intelligence divisions (Army, Air Force, Navy) 


Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) 


DARPA 


FBI 


Space Commands 
others 


Private Corporate Entities Believed To Be Involved 


Northrup Aerospace 
Boeing Aerospace 


Lockheed Martin (various facilities including Denver research center) 


BDM 
E Systems 
EG&G 


Wackenhut Corp. 


Village Supercomputing, Phoenix AZ 
Phillips Labs 


McDonnell Douglas Corp. 


TRW 


Rockwell International 
Booz- Allen and Hamilton, Inc. 


MITRE Corp. 


SAIC (Science Applications International, Inc.) 


Bechtel Corp. 
others 


3.6 TESTIMONY THAT EXPLAINS THE SECRECY 


Brigadier General Stephen Lovekin: Army National Guard Reserves 


“But what happened was that Eisenhower got sold out. Without him knowing it, he lost 
control of what was going on with the entire UFO situation. In his last address to the nation, I 
think he was telling us that the Military Industrial Complex would stick you in the back if you 




35 






were not totally vigilant. And, 1 think that he felt like he had not been vigilant. I think he felt 
like he trusted too many people. And, Eisenhower was a trusting man. He was a good man. 
And I think that he realized that all of a sudden this matter is going into the control of 
coiporations that could very well act to the detriment of this country. 


“This frustration, from what I can remember, went on for months. He realized that he 
was losing control of the UFO subject. He realized that the phenomenon or whatever it was 
that we were faced with was not going to be in the best hands. As far as I can remember, that 
was the expression that was used, “It is not going to be in the best hands.” That was a real 
concern. And so it has turned out to be. . . 


“It had been discussed with me on numerous occasions what could happen to me 
militarily if I discussed this. I would say that the government has done as good a job 
enforcing secrecy through the installation of abject fear as they have done with anything 
within the memory of modem man. I really believe they have done a job. 


“One older officer discussed with me what possibly could happen if there was a 
revelation. He was talking about being erased and I said, ‘Man, what do you mean erased?’ 
And, he said, ‘Yes, you will be erased-disappear.” And I said, “How do you know all this?’ 
And he said, ‘I know. Those threats have been made and carried out. Those threats started 
way back in 1947. The Army Air Force was given absolute control over how to handle this. 
This being the biggest security situation that this country has ever dealt with and there have 
been some erasures. . . ’ 


“I don’t care what kind of a person you are. I don’t care how strong or courageous you 
are. It would be a very fearful situation because from what Matt [this older officer] said, 
‘They will go after not only you. They will go after your family.’ Those were his words. 
And, so I can only say that the reason that they have managed to keep it under wraps for so 
long is through fear. They are very selective about how they pull someone out to make an 
example of. And I know that that has been done.” 


Merle Shane McDow: US Navy Atlantic Command 


“These two gentlemen began to question me about this event. They were being pretty 
rough about it, to be honest with you. I remember literally putting my hands up and saying, 
‘Wait a minute fellows. I am on your side. Just a minute.’ Because they were not really 
nice. They were very intimidating and made it quite clear to the point that nothing that was 
seen, heard, or witnessed, that transpired was to leave this building. ‘You are not to say a 
word about it to your co-workers. And off base, you just forget everything that you may have 
seen or heard concerning this. It didn’t happen. . . 


Lt. Col. Charles Brown: US Air Force (Retired) 


“It is sort of strange but we send people to prison, we send people to their death because 
of eyewitness accounts of crimes. Our legal system is based on that to a large degree. Yet in 
my following of unusual aerial phenomena for the past 50 years, there seems to be some 
reason to discredit very viable and very reputable witnesses when they say something is 
unidentified... 


“I do know that there are agencies of our Government that can manipulate data. And you 
can create or recreate [whatever you want]. Craft, intelligently operated craft, have basically 
violated our laws of physics on this planet. And they have done that for a long time. The fact 
that the Government at this point — I know we have been investigating since 1 947 — has not 
come up with an answer, to me indicates that there is something seriously wrong. Are we this 
incompetent in science? I don’t think so. Are we this incompetent in intelligence? I know 
we are not this incompetent in intelligence. Now, Project Blue Book, when it was closed by 




36 






Dr. Condon’s group, I have every reason to believe that this was a total deliberate 
whitewash.... 


“UFO’s have been investigated for an extended period of time and the general public is 
not being made aware, fully aware - but are given only bits and pieces, programmed 
responses and things like that.” 


“Dr. B”: 


“I know that some people I worked with did disappear on certain programs and were 
never heard from again. They just disappeared. There has been evidence of that all through 
my work. You know, that people go out on projects [and disappear]. But [to protect myself 
from this] I wouldn’t go any further on a project because I could see something strange 
coming. So, a lot of people have disappeared you know, that are higher up.” 


Lance Corporal Jonathan Weygandt: US Marine Corps 


‘“You weren’t supposed to be there.’ ‘You are not supposed to see this.’ ‘You are going 
to be dangerous if we let you go.’ I thought that they were going to kill me, really. . . 


“They had a Lieutenant Colonel from the Air Force and he did not identify himself. And 
he told me, ‘If we just took you out in the jungle, they would never find you out there.’ I 
didn’t want to test him to see if he would really do that so I just said, ‘Yeah.’ And, he said, 
‘You have got to sign these papers. You never saw this.’ I ‘don’t exist’ and ‘this situation 
never happened.’ And if you tell anybody, you will just come up missing. . . 


“They are yelling at me and hollering and cursing. ‘You didn’t see anything. We will do 
you and your whole goddamn family. ’ 


“It was basically that for about eight or nine hours. . . ‘We are going to take you off in a 
helicopter and we are going to kick your ass out in the jungle and we are going to end you. . .” 


“These different agencies are on their own. They don’t obey the law. They are rogue. 
Do I think that this is a project that goes up through the government and everyone has a piece 
in it? No. I think these guys operate on their own and no one knows what they do. It is so 
easy to do today. And there is no oversight, no control. They just do whatever they want. . . 


“Lethal, deadly force has been used. For those of you who don’t know, I know marine 
snipers and I have heard other guys talk about it and I’ve heard that these guys go on the 
streets and they stalk people and they kill them. I know that the Army Airborne snipers do 
the same thing. They use Delta Force to go grab these people and silence them by killing 
them.” 


Maj. George A. Filer, III: US Air Force (ret.) 


“At times I used to carry nuclear weapons. In other words, I was mentally fit to carry 
nuclear weapons, but I’m not mentally fit if I see a UFO. This criticism and this ridicule have 
done more to keep the story coming out than almost anything else.” 


Nick Pope: British Ministry of Defense Official 


“I believe that governments and the military, and indeed private researchers, politicians- 
whoever- should place everything in the public domain on this issue. Governments can’t, I 
think, have it both ways. You cannot say on the one hand, as the party line often goes, that 
UFOs are of no defense significance, and then on the other keep back some of the data. 


“You simply can’t do that. You have to have it one way or the other. And if, as 
governments consistently say when the politicians probe on this issue or when the media 
inquire, that there’s really nothing to worry about, then okay, let’s see all the data.” 




37 






Larry Warren: US Air Force, Security Officer 


“We were gone over with a Geiger counter and there was one return on one of the guys, 
and something was taken out of his pocket. This guy was removed very quickly. And, I will 
swear on my life, I never saw him again. He was removed. This happened to a lot of people. 
It led to a suicide that the Air Force is responsible for. This is a real person with a real 
name... 


“We were brought in and there were sheets on top of the law enforcement desk. There 
were about 10 of us. And there were one, two, three, four, five, six, seven stacks of 
documents, pre-typed. One was a pre-typed statement, all generic, of what we saw — which 
was not what we saw. It said we were off-duty and saw only unknown lights flipping 
amongst the trees. I clearly remember that. I said, what if we don’t sign this, Major Zigler? 
And, he says, you have no choice. And, he says, I have no choice but to ask you to do this. . . 


“Two people came up behind each of us, and I do remember someone heading toward 
him, and I heard the sound of what sounded like an aerosol. And, I went black. My nose ran 
profusely and my chest got tight. I, obviously, was not getting into the car properly, so I was 
beaten, literally hit in the ribs and pushed... Anyway, I have 20 minutes of recall and I’m 
gone for a day. And, it’s established with other people. People said I was on emergency 
leave or on leave or off the base. But I was just under the base. And, there were other 
personnel down there. 


...I had marks, by the way, from an IV, or something, when I came out of there. I had 
the bruise and I had a bandage. I will admit that. That’s for real. I had it. I’m terrified to 
know or think of what might have happened. . . 


“The only reason I have my records is because I was advised to steal some of them, by 
an Air Force Colonel, because he said they would vaporize you. He said, they are going to 
fireproof you. I was looked at, almost like a Fra nk Serpico kind of guy. I was not a team 
player because I was talking to everyone... religious. I respect that, but we had nothing in 
common. He was a nice guy. And, they did not do anything to help us. . .” 


Sgt. Clifford Stone: US Army 


“During the discussion of UFO’s, the question, ultimately, is going to come up, can any 
government keep secrets, let alone the U.S. Government? And the answer to that is 
unequivocally yes. But one of the greatest weapons the intelligence community has at their 
disposal is a predisposition by the American people, the American politicians and the 
debunkers — people who wish to try to debunk UFO information. They immediately come 
out and say, oh, we can’t keep secrets, we can’t keep secrets. Well, the truth is, yes, we can. 


“The National Recognizance Office remained secret for many, many years. The mere 
existence of the NS A remained secret. The development of the atomic weapon remained 
secret until once you exploded one you eventually had to tell some people what was going on. 


“And we are conditioned by our own paradigms not to accept the possibility or 
probability of a highly advanced intelligent civilization coming here to visit us. You have 
evidence in the form of highly credible reports of objects being seen, of the entities inside 
these objects being seen. Yet, we look for a prosaic explanation and we throw out the bits 
and pieces of the evidence that doesn’t meet our paradigm. So it is a self-keeping secret. 
You can conceal it in plain sight. It is political suicide to go and start hitting up intelligence 
agencies to get this information released. So, most of your members of Congress, and I know 
I’ve worked with a lot of them along that line, will balk and try not to do it. I can name you 
three members of Congress that were point bla nk asked to have a congressional inquiry on 
what happened here at Roswell. . . 


“We have got to get the documentation as it exists in the Government files. We have got 
to get it released before it ultimately is destroyed. A good example is the Blue Fly and Moon 




38 






Dust files. I had classified documents the Air Force acknowledged. When 1 got 
members of Congress to help me open up more files, they were immediately destroyed and I 
can prove this. 


“Somewhere along the line, they may see that material and realize there is some very 
highly sensitive information that would have a damning effect upon the national security of 
United States should it become compromised. It needs to be further protected, to insure that 
there is only a limited access to that information to a small number of people. So small you 
can put them on a list of paper, on a piece of paper, and list them by name. Thus, you have 
the special access programs. The controls that were supposed to be put on the special access 
programs are not there. When Congress did their review of the way we protect documents, 
and the way we go ahead and implement our secrecy programs, they found that you had 
special access programs within special access programs — that it was essentially impossible to 
keep control of them all by Congress. And, I’m telling you right now, it is essentially 
impossible to keep control of them all. 


“When it comes to UFO’s, the same criteria applies. Therefore, only a small nucleus 
within the intelligence community, numbering less than a hundred- no, I’d suggest less than 
50- control all that information. It is not subject to congressional review or oversight at all. 
So, Congress needs to go ahead and ask the hard questions and convene a hearing.” 


Master Sgt. Dan Morris: US Air Force, NRO Operative 


“I became part of a group that would investigate, gather the information, and in the 
beginning it was still under the Blue Book, Snowbird and different covert programs. I would 
go interview people who claimed they had seen something and try to convince them they 
hadn’t seen something or that they were hallucinating. Well, if that didn’t work, another 
team would come in and give all the threats. And threaten them and their family and so on 
and so forth. And they would be in charge of discrediting them, making them look foolish 
and so on and so forth. Now if that didn’t work, then there was another team that put an end 
to that problem, one way or another.” 


A.H.: Boeing Aerospace Employee 


“A CNN reporter in Washington, D.C., the second time that Gorbachev came to America, 
was able to interview Gorbachev and his wife. When they got out on the street they drove the 
security detail up the wall. And a CNN reporter asked Gorbachev ‘Do you think we should 
get rid of all our nuclear weapons?’ And his wife stepped in and she said, no, I don’t think 
we should get rid of all our nuclear weapons because of alien spacecraft. 


“Now CNN put this story on for the half hour, on CNN headline news; I heard this and I 
jumped up and put a blank tape in to record the next half-hour. Well, that story disappeared 
and you know who intercepted that. It was the CIA that got involved with that, because I 
know that they were monitoring CNN and all international headlines at that time. They 
squashed that, but I heard it. And this tells me that my information is correct about Ronald 
Reagan, from my NSA source. The secrecy is just total overkill as far as I’m concerned. And 
the Congress needs to know about this information. . . 


“He said that we’re trying to get a lid on this to try to minimize the sightings and quell 
the news media and the witnesses that are reporting these sightings to the news media. The 
Air Force wanted to push this thing under the rug and continue to research it and just get a 
handle on it. He confirmed that the Air Force wanted to steer the news media off on some 
crazy idea that these sightings were created by college pranks and balloons and 
meteorological problems. . . 


“What he told me regarding the security ramifications were that if their military 
personnel talked about this they could be courtmartialed or at least threatened to be 




39 






courtmartialed to get him to back down. Other intimidations would be to hold their 
paychecks back, transfer them to other bases where a lot of people would not want to go to, 
like Alaska. . . 


“Basically, these projects were controlled by the Majestic 12 group, which is no longer 
called MJ12. I’m trying to find out the new name of this group. My contact that worked at 
Area 51 knows the name of the group, but he’s refusing to tell me the name. Basically it’s an 
oversight group intermingled with the National Security Council and the National Security 
Planning Group in Washington, D.C. There is a group called the National Security Planning 
Group that oversees everything. And Majestic 12 is intermingled with these people, the 
National Security Planning Group. 


“They have full control. They alert the President of what’s taking place and he either 
authorizes or just says, hey, you guys go at it. They have full control. They have no 
Congressional oversight whatsoever. They answer to nobody, except for the President of the 
United States. But they are trying to push even that aside, away from the President, from 
what I understand. 


“The Presidents no longer have that much control over these groups anymore. It’s like a 
separate entity.” 


Officer Alan Godfrey: British Police 


“I was absolutely amazed at what happened after that. My life just turned upside down in 
an instant. From being a happy go lucky chap, within a space of six months I was put 
through hell and turned into one of the most horrible persons you could ever imagine coming 
across. Purely through harassment, stress, victimization, you name it, I had it.” 


Sgt. Karl Wolfe: US Air Force 


“I didn’t want to look at it any longer than that, because I felt that my life was in 
jeopardy. Do you understand what I’m saying? I would have loved to have looked at it 
longer, I would have loved to have had copies. I would love to have said more about it, 
discussed it more, but I knew I couldn’t. I knew the young fellow who was sharing this was 
really, really overstepping his bounds at that point. 


“I felt that he just needed somebody to talk to. He hadn’t discussed it, couldn’t discuss it, 
and he wasn’t doing it for any ulterior motive other than the fact that I think he had the 
weight of this thing on him and it was distressing to him. . . 


“I knew that I couldn’t go anyplace for at least five years without telling the State 
Department where I was, after I left the military. Any time I traveled I had to notify and get 
permission, even in the United States. They had to know where I was all the time. As an 
example, if we went to Vietnam there was always someone there with us, with a gun, ready to 
annihilate us basically if we should fall into the hands of the enemy. They didn’t want the 
enemy to get us; we would be killed instead. 


“So we knew we were operating under these sort of conditions. Your life was in 
jeopardy all the time, should you fall into the wrong hands. So we were aware of that. I was 
told when I left that I would be investigated on a regular basis to make sure that I wasn’t 
involved in any peculiar activities that didn’t suit the government’s needs.” 


Mrs. Donna Hare: NASA Employee 


“There was a point in time when I had some people come out and tell me I shouldn’t talk 
about this. They didn’t threaten to kill me but I got the message I shouldn’t talk about it. But 
I’d already talked about it so much it didn’t really matter anymore. And like I said at the 
[1997] congressional briefings, I really started feeling like this topic was like sex. You know, 
everybody knew about it but nobody talked about in mixed company. I’m waiting to tell 




40 






more whenever there’s a congressional hearing where I could be protected. I trust Dr. Greer. 
I feel he’s done everything he said he would do as far as protection, secrecy of what I give 
him, for now. I want it to come out when it’s necessary and proper and can do some good. I 
don’t want people going around that are trying to get rid of these people or hurting them or 
challenging them or making them so frightened they move away-like this one particular man 
I know of who has just disappeared off the face of the Earth. This one man, he has 
disappeared. I just don’t want that.” 


Mr, John Maynard: DIA Official 


“Of corporations involved in this matter, Atlantic Research Corporation is one of the big 
ones. So it’s not very often heard about. It’s an insider beltway bandit, if you want to call it 
that very low profile, mostly has all of its work done within Intelligence. TRW, Johnson 
Controls, Honeywell: All of them at some point or another became involved with the 


Intelligence field. Certain works, activities were contracted out to them. Atlantic Research 
was one of them -way back. These are entities that were created out of people in the 
Pentagon to become a ‘beltway bandit’ — received projects, grants, and monies to do certain 
projects that were so highly classified and compartmentalized that you know only about four 
people would know what was going on. So it was that tightly controlled.” 


Dr. Robert Wood: McDonnell Douglas Aerospace Engineer 


“As you may know, when you get cleared for one of these classified programs you wear 
your special badge and you know you can talk to anybody who’s in the room with a lot of 
candor and it feels like that’s ones psychological group- there’s a lot of camaraderie that 
builds up. And you had access to special libraries. So one of the things that we could do is 
go up to the library that the Air Force ran and sort of paw through top- secret material. Since 
I was interested in UFOs, when I had some usual business to take care of, I’d also look in 
their library to see what they had on UFOs. And for about a year I was getting quite a few 
hits on the subject about various reports. Then all of a sudden, the whole subject material 
vanished. The entire classification for the subject just vanished. The librarian in our group 
that I was working with said he’d been in that vault for twenty years and knew exactly how 
things were normally done. He said, this is remarkable. He said. I’ve never seen that before, 
you just don’t have a whole subject vanish out from under you. He said, I think there is 
something there that you hit on. . . 


“In the meantime, there was one other thing that came about as a result of my association 
with Jim McDonald. I liked the guy, he was really an energetic physicist and wouldn’t let 
any grass grow under his feet. When he got a case he would dig his teeth into it and present 
an overwhelmingly convincing story to professional societies. He would talk to the 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the American Physical Society, and I 
happened to be members of both. So whenever he was in town I would pick him up, escort 
him, made sure he felt welcome. 


“So once when I was traveling through Tucson, where he lived, I stopped- I had a two- 
hour layover to catch an airplane — and he came out to the airport to have a beer with me. I 
said, ‘What’s new, Jim?’ He said, ‘I think I’ve got it.’ I said, ‘What do you think you got?’ 
He said, ‘I think I got the answer.’ I said, ‘What is it?’ He said, ‘I can’t tell you yet. I have 
got to be sure.’ It was six weeks after that that he tried to shoot himself. A couple months 
after that he finally died. 


“Knowing what I think I now suspect about the skills of our counterintelligence people, I 
think we had the capacity to convince him to do it himself. I think that’s what happened. . . 


“Clearly in order to have effective control of this subject, you have to control it at all 
levels and the most obvious level is the media. So you have to look at all the kinds of media 




41 






there are, the movies, the magazines, and of course in the early days that’s all it is, 
newspapers and movies and magazines. Now we have the Internet and video and all those 
other sorts of things. But as the technology has blossomed in these other avenues, the people 
worrying about this control have also just moved into those avenues right along with them. 
So every time a new avenue comes up they have a new counterpoint.” 


Glen Dennis: NM UFO Crash Witness 


“One of the MPs took me aside and he just said, look mister, you don’t go and start any. 
Nothing happened down here. And he said, if you do you know there’d be real serious 
problems. The way my character was at that time, I just said. I’m a civilian and you can go to 
hell. And that’s when he said, you may be the one going to hell. He said, somebody would 
be picking my bones out of the sand if I talked.” 


Sgt. Leonard Pretko: US Air Force 


“In the military they do ridicule you and I was ridiculed a few times about these UFO 
events. I was told that I would never make Master Sergeant if I brought this crap up again. 
My superior said, ‘If you keep this crap up you will never make Master Sergeant. You will 
get orders for Tech but you will never make Master Sergeant. They will force you out of the 
military.’” 


Dr. Roberto Pinotti: Italian UFO expert 


“Probably there are, in every part of the world, invisible links with a definite invisible 
college that is keeping this secret. They are dealing with this subject from the standpoint of 
research secretly in order to have gains and technologies to be applied in a various ways. The 
UFO problem is not only a scientific problem, it is also an intelligence problem. 


“This is the second important face of the UFO reality. When we begin to understand this 
we may understand a lot of things, because all this has to do with power. Power everywhere, 
in every country, with every government, with every situation.” 


Dr. Paul Czysz: McDonnell Douglas Career Engineer 


“The black budget world is like trying to describe Casper the friendly ghost. Y ou might 
see a cartoon of him but you don’t know how big he is, you don’t know where his funding 
comes from, you don’t know how many there are because of the compartmentalization and 
the oath that people have to take. I know people today that worked on one of the things that I 
worked on, and if you asked them about it —even if it is being discussed on the Internet — 
they would say no, I have no idea what you’re talking about. They’re in their seventies now, 
but they still absolutely would never admit that they even know what you’re talking about. 
You have no idea, but it’s probably larger than you thi nk .” 


Astronaut Edgar Mitchell: 


“But it has been the subject of disinformation in order to deflect attention and to create 
confusion so the truth doesn’t come out. Disinformation is simply another method of 
stonewalling. And that’s been used consistently for the last 50 years or so: Weather balloons 
over Roswell as opposed to a crashed craft of some sort. That is disinformation. We’ve seen 
that for 50 years. And it’s the best way to hide something. . . 


“Whatever activity is going on, to the extent that it is a clandestine group, a quasi- 
Govemment group, a quasi-private group, it is without any type, as far as I can tell, of high 
level Government oversight. And that is a great concern.” 




42 






John Callahan: FAA Head of Accidents and Investigations 


“...When they got done, they actually swore all these other guys in there that this never 
took place. We never had this meeting. And this was never recorded. . . 


“This was one of the guys from the CIA. Okay? That they were never there and this 
never happened. At the time I said, well I don’t know why you are saying this. I mean, there 
was something there and if it’s not the stealth bomber, then you know, it’s a UFO. And if it’s 
a UFO, why wouldn’t you want the people to know? Oh, they got all excited over that. You 
don’t even want to say those words. He said this is the first time they ever had 30 minutes of 
radar data on a UFO. And they are all itching to get their hands onto the data and to find out 
what it is and what really goes on. He says if they come out and told the American public 
that they ran into a UFO out there, it would cause panic across the country. So therefore, you 
can’t talk about it. And they are going to take all this data. . . 


“Well when they read the reports that came through the FAA decided it had to protect 
themselves — you can’t say you saw a target, even though this is what he said. So they made 
him change his report to say ‘position symbols’, which makes it sound like it wasn’t really a 
target. Well if it’s not a target then a lot of the other position symbols that we are separating 
[on radar] aren’t targets either. And when I read that, I thought oh, there is something fishy 
here, that somebody is worried about something or other and they are trying to cover up. 


“When the CIA told us that this never happened and we never had this meeting, I believe 
it was because they didn’t want the public to know that this was going on. Normally we 
would put out some type of a news release that such and such happened. . . 


“Well, I’ve been involved in a lot of cover-ups with the FAA. When we gave the 
presentation to the Reagan staff I was behind the group that was there. And when they were 
speaking to the people in the room, they had all those people swear that this never happened. 
But they never had me swear it never happened. And it always bothered me that we have 
these things going on and when you see something or you hear something on the radio or TV, 
the news, that it’s put down as it’s not there. I have a hard time saying nothing.” 


Michael Smith: US Air Force Radar Controller 


“NORAD [North American Air Defense Command] knows about it. They had called 
NORAD. The senior NCO pulled me to the side and said that NORAD knows about it — 
that’s the only people we notify. We don’t talk about this. We don’t tell anybody about this. 
The people that know, know. We just watch, see what happens, and that’s it. That’s our job. 
I insisted there has to be a report filed or something filed, you know? And he said that there 
is a report that you can file — it’s about an inch thick, and the first two pages are about the 
sighting. The rest of it is basically a psychological profile of you, your family, your 
bloodlines, everything. 


“When the Air Force goes through it, they can discredit you completely by either saying 
that [you were] on drugs, or your mother was a communist, or anything to discredit you. 
You’d never get a promotion, and [you’d] spend the next three and one-half years up at the 
North Pole, living in a tent, checking the weather balloons. You know — no hope for 
promotion. So, the message was pretty loud and clear: you just shut-up and don’t say 
anything to anybody. . . 


“Another experience I had happened on third shift. I was on the radar, and NORAD 
called me and informed me that there was a UFO coming up the California coast and it would 
be in my area pretty soon. 


“I said what do you want me to do? And they said, “Nothing, just watch it, don’t write it 
down.” We have a log book in which we are supposed to keep track of anything out of the 
ordinary. But they said, “Don’t log it or anything, just watch it. We are just letting you know 




43 






— heads up.” NORAD was well aware, obviously, that these UFOs were around, and the 
action of the people when I first saw the UFO on radar was as if it happens quite often.” 


“The government, they cover up. They don’t want anybody talking about it. But this is 
such remarkable technology. These people come from who knows where. I would think 
you’d want everybody to know. . . 


“On a personal note, after the first event happened in Oregon, I came home on leave and 
told my Dad about it. Fie was red, white, and blue through and through-an old WWII hero 
and all that, and very patriotic. I was explaining to him about these UFOs that we routinely 
see out there, and he said, ‘No, the Government says that there are no UFOs.’ I’m saying, 
Dad, I’ve seen these on radar with my own eyes. And he says, come on, the Government 
would never lie to him. You know? But here’s his son; I would never lie to him. 


“So, he just didn’t know what to do. It wasn’t until years later, until after Watergate, that 
he said, ‘Hey, sit down and tell me about this. The Government is lying to me about a little 
thing like Watergate, so obviously they are out lying about something big.’ 


“It’s a Government cover-up that doesn’t need to be here any more. There is no more 
Cold War. I believe the same thing Dr. Greer does, that the technology they have could 
enable us to stop burning our fossil fuels and stop the damage to the ozone, etc. These people 
have technologies — they must have something. And the Government knows about it. They 
have these aliens, they have these spacecraft, they have this technology, all this. There’s a lot 
of back-engineered technology, that’s pretty obvious. Who are they to cover this up when 
other Governments are coming forward, admitting, and showing their files — why isn’t our 
Government?” 


Franklin Carter: US Navy Radar Technician 


“They didn’t want anybody to know anything about what we were seeing. And I thi nk 
that started the cover-up. And then it got out of hand. 


“But I know that the only people that they are keeping it secret from today are the 
Americans. Everybody else knows about it and accepts it. And all of the other Governments 
in the world except England and the U.S. primarily, are accepting it. 


“It’s very irritating to me personally, to see that go on.” 


Neil Daniels: United Airlines Pilot 


“In the past pilots that had seen things and had talked about it were let go. Some were 
released from their flying and treated as nutcases and things like that. So that was the last I 
said of it for many, many years.” 


Lt. Frederick Fox: US Navy Pilot 


“There is a publication called JANAP 146 E that had a section that says you will not 
reveal any information regarding the UFO phenomenon under penalty of $10,000.00 fine and 
ten years in jail. So they were quite adamant that whatever experiences you had you were not 
to go public with it without their permission. . . 


“The subject never came up with Air Traffic Control. In any event I would never have 
opened my mouth. There was a Captain, Pete Killian, who was written about in some of the 
UFO books. He was a Captain with American Airlines back in the ‘50’s that evidently had a 
sighting and testified before the Senate committees. And then there was another captain that 
actually took a photograph of a UFO off his wings. And of course they were subject to 
ridicule. I didn’t want to go that direction. So, I never reported anything to FAA or the 
military. A lot of pilots just did not want to get involved in this because of peer pressure and 
ridicule. So the secret has been kept. . . 




44 






“I have a very personal friend that was a B-24 pilot during W.W.II that got into [the] 
O.S.S. And he was one of the first people into Japan after the atomic bomb was dropped on 
Hiroshima, Nagasaki. He ended up on Project Bluebook, Section 13, which 1 believe was the 
top-secret portion of that investigation. At the time he was a captain in the Air Force. He’s 
in his late ‘70’s now and he is still being carried on active duty as a captain. I don’t know if 
he’s being paid but if he’s on active duty he should be a three star general with time and ra nk 
and he should be paid. And the whole reason that they have kept him on active duty is to 
keep his national security oath active because of what he knows. There are certain things that 
he will not talk to me about because of that security oath even though I had a top secret 
clearance with the Navy and we are both very interested in the same thing. 


“For whatever reason the Government, or those agencies of Government, deem necessary 
to protect their agendas, which obviously now, aren’t our agendas. I think it is time for us to 
act, to end this charade. And to take whatever steps are necessary to insure that the human 
race evolves properly and enjoys the fruits of that evolution.” 


Captain Robert Salas: US Air Force, SAC Launch Controller 


“I wrote up a report about this incident; it was in my log and I turned it in. When we got 
to the base we had to report to our squadron commander right away. And in that room with 
my squadron commander was a fellow from AFOS1 (we had an Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations on the base). He was there in the office with the commander. He asked for my 
logs and he wanted a quick briefing although it seemed to me he knew pretty much what had 
happened already. But we gave him a quick briefing and then he asked us both to sign a non- 
disclosure agreement saying this was classified information- we were not to release this to 
anybody, and that was it. We couldn’t talk; he told us we could not talk about this to anyone, 
including any of the other crews, our spouses, our family, even amongst each other. . . 


“Bob Kominski headed up the organization to look at all aspects of these [UFO related 
ICBM] shutdowns. Kominski relates to me in writing that at some point he was told by his 
boss that the Air Force said, ‘Stop the investigation; do no more on this and in addition do not 
write a final report.’ Again, this is very unusual especially in light of the fact that CINC-SAC 
headquarters was stating that this was of extreme importance to find out exactly what 
happened here. And yet, the head of the investigative team was told during the investigation 
to stop the investigation and not write a final report.” 


Prof. Robert Jacobs: US Air Force 


“After an article [came out about the incident], the shit hit the fan! I started being 
harassed at work. I started getting odd telephone calls that would come during the day. At 
night, at my house I would get telephone calls- all night long sometimes 3:00 in the morning, 
4:00 in the morning, midnight, 10:00, people would call and start screaming at me. You are 
going down mother fucker! You are going down mother fucker! And that’s all they would 
say. And they’d keep screaming that until I finally hung up the phone. 


“One night somebody blew up my mail box by putting a big load of skyrockets in it. The 
mailbox went up in flames. And that night at 1 :00 in the morning the phone rang. I picked it 
up and somebody said, skyrockets in your box at night, oh what a beautiful sight, mother 
fucker! 


“And things like that have happened on and off since 1982. . . 


“I believe this nutty fringe around UFO’s is part of a concerted effort to keep serious study of 
it down. Anytime anybody tries to study this subject seriously, we are subject to ridicule. 
I’m a full professor at a relatively major university. And I’m certain that my colleagues at the 
university laugh at me and hoot and holler behind my back when they hear that I have an 




45 






interest in studying unidentified flying objects- and that’s just one of the things that we have 
to live with. . . 


“What happened to the film is an interesting story in itself as Major Mansmann related to 
me and other people. Some time after I had gone, the guys in civilian clothes — I thought it 
was the CIA but he said no, it wasn’t the CIA, it was somebody else- took the film and they 
spooled off the part that had the UFO on it and they took a pair of scissors and cut it off. 
They put that on a separate reel. They put it in their briefcase. They handed Major 
Mansmann back the rest of the film and said here, I don’t need to remind you Major of the 
severity of a security breach; we’ll consider this incident closed. And they walked off with 
the film. Major Mansmann never saw it again” 


Harry Allen Jordan: US Navy 


“A Lieutenant Commander whom I didn’t know very well came over and he asked, you 
know, what was up Jordan? What have you got in your log? And he says, you don’t need to 
put that in there. Now to me that was highly irregular, highly irregular to say that particularly 
on a ship’s logs. I did have the contact logged in there. And I started writing in UFO.” 


James Kopf: US Navy Crypto Communications 


“A few days later the Commanding Officer and the Executive Officer came on the closed 
circuit television system that we had on board. It was the only way that they could address 
the crew of 5,000. He [the Commanding Officer] looked at the camera — and I will never 
forget this — and he said, ‘I would like to remind the crew that certain events that take place 
on board a major naval combative vessel are considered classified and should not be 
discussed with anyone without a need to know.’ And that was all he said.” 


3.7 IMPORTANT EDITORIAL NOTICE 


Beginning in 1993, I started an effort that was designed to identify firsthand military and 
government witnesses to UFO events and projects, as well as other evidence to be used in a 
public disclosure. From 1993, we spent considerable time and resources briefing the Clinton 
Administration, including CIA Director James Woolsey, senior military officials at the Pentagon, 
and select members of Congress, among others. In April of 1997, more than a dozen such 
government and military witnesses were assembled in Washington DC for briefings with 
Congressmen, Pentagon officials and others. There, we specifically requested open 
Congressional Hearings on the subject. None were forthcoming. 


In 1998, we set out to “privatize” the disclosure process by raising the funds to videotape, 
edit, and organize over 100 military and government witnesses to UFO events and projects. We 
had estimated that between $2 million and $4 million would be needed to do this on a worldwide 
basis. By August of 2000 only about 5% of this amount had been raised but we decided to 
proceed since further delay was deemed imprudent given the serious issues involved here. So 
beginning in August we began creating the Witness Archive Project and we set about the task of 
traveling all over the world to interview these witnesses in broadcast quality digital video format. 
Due to the severe limitation of funds, this effort was predominantly prepared by myself and a few 
other volunteers roughly from August 2000 through December 2000. 


Beginning in late December 2000, I began editing over 120 hours of raw digital video 
testimony at home using a dual-G4 Macintosh with 90 Gigabytes of storage and a digital video 
deck. I should note that I am a medical doctor and not an editor. Nevertheless, from late 
December 2000 until late February 2001 the 120 hours were reduced first to 33 hours of select 




46 






testimony and then 18 hours of super-select testimony. The 33 hours of select testimony were 
dubbed to audiotape and transcribed resulting in approximately 1200 pages of testimony 
transcript. In March and early April, 200 1 I edited these transcripts into a readable form, which 
appear herein. 


I must emphasize that this has been done under the most severe time and funding constraints, 
working 7 days a week and mostly 18 hours a day. And I thought the Emergency Department 
was tough! 


I share this only so the reader will understand that these transcripts and other materials are 
very likely to contain errors. These include likely errors in proper names arising from the 
phonetic spelling of such names directly from transcribed audio tapes of testimony. I apologize 
in advance for these. 


The transcripts (that appear in the Briefing Document) have only been altered to correct for a) 
length and b) grammar and readability. I have assiduously avoided changing the meaning of 
testimony at all times. Statements in brackets [ ] are for clarification. Statements in italics and 
brackets [ ] reflect commentary on my part and are followed by my initials, SG. 


These materials are, as you can now discern, only the tip of the iceberg of what we have 
recorded on digital videotape. That is, from over 120 hours of testimony by over 100 witnesses 
we transcribed only 33 hours and then further edited materials down to a fraction of that amount. 
Moreover, the full archive represents the testimony of only 100 witnesses of the more than 400 
identified to date. The edited testimony will be appearing in book form. A portion of it appears 
in The Disclosure Project Briefing Document and only small excerpts and summary bios of 
testimony appear in this Executive summary. We hope in the future to secure funding for a 5-6 
part broadcast quality video documentary series to be made from the videotaped testimony we 
have as the impact of hearing and seeing these witnesses speak is very moving. 


As you read this testimony remember that it is indeed only the beginning. The rest is up to 
you: Call and demand that Congress and the President and the leaders of other countries hold 
hearings into this subject without delay. These witnesses welcome a subpoena so that they may 
officially testify under oath to what they have experienced and said here. Indeed, the most 
revealing testimony waits to be seen since the deepest sources are refusing to come forward until 
protected through official Congressional hearings. 


This then brings me to my last point: The witnesses who have given testimony to date are 
extraordinarily brave men and women - heroes in my eyes - who have taken great personal risks 
in coming forward. Some have been threatened and intimidated. All are risking the ever-present 
ridicule that attends this subject. Not a single one of them has been paid for his or her testimony: 
It has been given freely and without reservation for the good of humanity. I wish to personally 
thank them here and extend to them my personal, highest respect and gratitude. 


Please, I implore you not to let this effort and their sacrifice be in vain. Elelp us place this 
matter in front of the public, the media, and our elected representatives so that the full truth may 
be disclosed, so that those Earth-saving technologies now classified may be released, and so 
humanity may enter a new chapter in its evolution as one of many people in the cosmos. 




47 






This summary is focusing on the testimony of important first-hand witnesses. We have 
thousands of government documents, hundreds of photographs, trace landing cases and 
more, but it is impossible to include them in a summary of this length. These materials will 
be made available for any serious scientific or Congressional inquiry. 


Steven M. Greer, M.D. 5 April 2001 


3.8 SUMMARY OF VIDEO TAPED WITNESS TESTIMONY AND 
GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS 


3.8.1 Overview 




Testimony of Astronaut Edgar Mitchell 


May 1998 


[Our deepest gratitude goes to James Fox for sharing with us this interview. SG] 


In February 1971 Astronaut Edgar Mitchell flew on Apollo 14 and was the 6 th man to 
walk on the moon. In his testimony, he acknowledges the fact that there have been ET 
visitations here on Earth as well as crashed craft and recovered materials and bodies. He 
also speaks of the concealment that has been prevalent surrounding this subject for over 
50 years and the lack of oversight and visible Government control. He is concerned over 
our stewardship of this Earth and sees our growing environmental crisis as real. 


EM: Astronaut Edgar Mitchell JF: James Fox 


EM: In the literature we see accounts from military people who have had encounters in 
flight, and been vectored to chase unidentified objects. These are people who have official 
positions whose job was to know about possible extraterrestrial visitation and to do something 
with it, people within Government. 


There’s a lot that does go on with these high security classifications-they are under military 
rules. I think it is a fairly muddy area when we are talking about this level of activity. There are 
some stories [about how secrecy has been enforced] that are rather ghastly, as a matter of fact. I 
can’t validate those. I don’t know that they are necessarily true. But, like many other stories, 
they put fear in the hearts of people and that’s, perhaps, why many people don’t want to come 
forward. 


My interest basically is what’s the nature of the universe we live in? What is our relationship 
to the larger reality? If [UFOs] are a part of the larger reality and we are denying it, that to me is 
unconscionable. I don’t live that way. I went into space to learn about the universe we live in, to 
get new insights, to go beyond the boundaries of our known existence. And if these phenomena 
are really indicators of new information about the cosmos at all, and intelligent life in the cosmos, 
and our ability to travel in the cosmos, then we ought to get to the bottom of it. It is just my 
curiosity that drives me. 


There seems to have been, over the last 50 years at least, a great deal of secrecy surrounding 
the so-called UFO events. It’s a very complex subject. We are not dealing with something that’s 
very simple here. We have sightings of all sorts. We’ve been reporting thousands and thousands 




48 






of sightings for 50 years or so. Large numbers of those sightings are indeed misperceiving 
natural phenomenon in some way. But a large number of them are not misperceiving. They are 
well documented events that represent flying craft that do not match anything we have in an 
Earthbound arsenal, which is very short of saying we have validated in the public domain that 
they are ET craft. We have to rely upon people who have been there and interacted, have 
firsthand data. 


The only people I know of that claim to have been in that position are former intelligence, 
military, and Government people, and some contractor people whose official duties in the early 
days were to investigate this and know about it. Those people were under, at that time, great 
restrictions and high security clearances that prevented them from telling the general public about 
it. It would appear that period has long past but they are still under security restriction, or at least 
believe they are. 


Yes there have been ET visitations. There have been crashed craft. There have been material 
and bodies recovered. And there is some group of people somewhere that may or may not be 
associated with Government at this point, but certainly were at one time, that have this 
knowledge. They have been attempting to conceal this knowledge or not permit it to be widely 
disseminated. 


I cannot answer who are these people. But there is a lot of evidence that points to what I call 
a clandestine group- people who have some quasi affiliation with Government and certain 
Government facilities but operate in a very stealth and secret way that is not generally under high 
level Government control as far as we can tell. From all that I know, yes there has been ET 
visitation and may continue to be. There have been craft that have been recovered. There has 
been a certain amount of reverse engineering that has allowed some of these craft, or some 
components, to be duplicated. And, that there are Earthlings who are utilizing some of this 
equipment in certain ways. 


And, that, perhaps a large part of the activity that’s classified as UFO activity- abductions and 
the whole host of this type of activity- may very well not be due to ET activity at all. I would 
suspect if any is due to ET activity, it is a rather small part. And a larger portion is due to human 
type activity, Earthling type activity in a very clandestine fashion. 


1 will stop short of attaching motivation to this. 1 don’t know the motivation. But if it is 
normal human motivation, it has to do with power and control and greed and money and so forth. 


1 think it is long past time to open this up to the public. 1 do not see anything that suggests, 
really, malevolent intent... We see things that, like abductions for example, that many would 
claim are hostile. To the extent that that may be true, I would more likely attribute it to some 
other [non ET] cause. 


There is a mountain of evidence, if you will, that essentially amounts to smoking gun 
evidence that has not been brought forward at this point, at least not by the powers of 
Government. 


The question of, has it been kept secret, or how could it be kept secret? It hasn’t been kept 
secret. It’s been there all along. But it has been the subject of disinformation in order to deflect 
attention and to create confusion so the truth doesn’t come out. Disinformation is simply another 
method of stonewalling. And that’s been used consistently for the last 50 years or so: Weather 




49 






balloons over Roswell as opposed to a crashed craft of some sort. That is disinformation. We’ve 
seen that for 50 years. And it’s the best way to hide something. 


It shouldn’t be any more of an effect that ET’s have come here than that we have gone to the 
moon. Okay? It’s just a part of the way things are. And we have to understand it and put it in 
context of the story of ourselves, our knowledge base, of cosmology, the nature of our existence, 
who are we, how does the world work. And of course that knowledge does change our 
understanding of how the world, or the universe at large, works. Until the last 30 years, it was 
conventional wisdom, both in science and theology, that we are alone in the universe, that we are 
the whole, single repository of life anywhere in the known universe. Well no one believes that 
anymore. That changes our concept of who we are and how we fit. 


And it is becoming very clear that the way we have conducted ourselves as stewards of life 
on planet Earth is wanting. We haven’t been good stewards. We have environmental, global 
problems right now that are bringing civilization to a crisis. And people don’t want to hear that 
but it’s slowly becoming obvious that that is true. And so, this knowledge of who we are, how 
we manage a planet, how we fit into the larger scheme of things, is a very important question. 


Well, Dr. Greer did indeed mount an initiative and did go to Washington, did speak with high 
level Government people, did present some of the witnesses that we’ve talked about here, to give 
briefings. He has asked for congressional hearings on these matters. I attended and helped him 
with that. And I believe it is a very important effort that we get congressional oversight of all of 
this. But so far, that hasn’t happened. We briefed certain members of Congress, some of their 
staff, some of the people from the White House. We talked with people in the Pentagon. And in 
general, it was well received and some were quite amazed at what they heard. But so far it hasn’t 
resulted in any great activity. 


JF : Was this news to a lot of their ears? 


EM: To some people, yes. Others, not really so much. But I will say, it led me to the belief 
that people in high level Government have very, very little, if any, valid information about this. 
Most have no more knowledge than the man in the street. They were out of the loop of the things 
we were talking about, that’s right. 


JF : Is that a concern for you? 


EM: Oh yes, it’s a very great concern. I have expressed this concern over and over. That is 
exactly what I’m saying: whatever activity is going on, to the extent that it is a clandestine group, 
a quasi-Government group, a quasi-private group, it is without any type, as far as I can tell, of 
high level Government oversight. And that is a great concern. 


[Astronaut Mitchell here is referring to the 1997 Briefings that Dr. Greer organized for 
Congress, White House personnel, the Pentagon and others. There were over a dozen 
government and military > witnesses present who testified regarding what they personally had seen 
related to UFOs and ET matters. It was indeed disconcerting to see so many high government 
officials and senior Pentagon officers who had been kept in the dark about something as 
important as this. SGJ 




50 






Testimony of Monsignor Corrado Balducci 


September 2000 


[Through translator] 


Monsignor Balducci is a Vatican theologian and an insider close to the Pope. He has 
been featured on national Italian television numerous times to express that 
extraterrestrial contact is a real phenomenon and “not due to psychological 
impairment”. In this testimony he explains that not only the general populace but also 
highly credible, cultured, and educated people of high status are recognizing more and 
more that this is a real phenomenon. He goes on to speak about the extraterrestrial 
people as part of God’s creation and that they are not angels nor are they devils. 
However they are probably more spiritually evolved. 


CB: Monsignor Corrado Balducci SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


CB: . . . We have come to the point that we can’t anymore deny that there is something that is 
happening, that something is happening here in this field of ufology, not just flying saucers, 
but there might be actual people, beings, extraterrestrial beings. . . 


I want to speak as a theologist right now. To be so skeptical is against normal common sense, 
it’s against reason. Human testimony is the most common way of communication and 
dialogue. Because, when we listen to people, we have to have faith that what they are saying 
is true. It’s a dialogue between one who says something and believing what the person has to 
say, or not believing what the person has to say. 


But if we go ahead like this, and this is the real point that really moved me as a theologian, if 
we continue saying this isn’t true, then what’s going to happen? Then whatever human 
witness testimony we have for anything else will not be given the importance deserved to 
witness testimony. And this witness testimony, if it becomes diminished will have a lot of 
negative repercussions: individual negative aspects, social negative aspects, and religious 
aspects. And especially for what concerns the Christian religion. . . 


It’s also possible for another reason: God. God in his wisdom wouldn’t have created only us 
as humans. 


SG: In America, there have been some reactionary fundamentalists who have said that these 
are the work of the devil? What do you think of this? 


CB: The devil has nothing to do with this! I haven’t talked about this publicly in the past, 
but angels and devils don’t need [spacecraft; they don’t need the flying saucers. They don’t 
need these things. God would never allow the devil to show humanity this kind of 
manifestation in such a great form. He would never permit this. Don’t even think about it 
being the devil. . . 


And it says in the Bible, everything that exists in the universe is in the creation divine. There 
are no extraterrestrials which are not part of the divine creation. . . 




51 








ornct or thi d/aectoj 




000014 










p.F.': 2 1952 




MEKORAEDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence 


THRU . : Deputy Director for Intelligence 


i 


SUBJECT : Unidentified Flying Objects 




1. On 20 August, | the DCI, after a briefing by OSI on the above 
subject, directed the preparation of an KSCXD for submission to the 
Council stating the need for investigation and directing agencies 
concerned to cooperate in such investigations. 


2. In attempting! to draft such a directive and the supporting 
staff studies, it became apparent to DD/l, Acting AD/SI and AD/lC 
that the problem vas largely a research and development problem, -and 
it vas decided by DD/l. to attempt to initiate action through SStDB. 


A conference vas held between Dl/USAF, Chairman of R&B3, DD/l, Acting 
AD/SI ar.fi AD/lC at which time it vas decided that Dr. Whitman, Chairman 
of R£D3, would investigate the possibility of undertaking research and 
development studies through Air Force agencies. 




3. On approximately 6 November, ve were advised by Chairman, 
HUB, that inquiries in the Air Staff did not disclose "undue concern" 
over this matter, but that it had been referred to the Air Defense 
Command for consideration. No further word has been received from. 




RcTQ. 






4. Recent reports reaching CIA indicated that further action was 
desirable and another briefing by' the"COgnizant A-2 end ATIC personnel 
was held on 25 November! . At this time, the reports of incidents convince 
us that there is something going on that must have immediate attention. 
The details of some of these incidents have been discussed by AD/SI 
with DDCI • Sightings of unexplained objects at great altitudes and 
travelling at high speeds in the vicinity of major U.S. defense in- 
stallations are of such nature that they are not attributable to 
natural phenomena or known types of aerial vehicles . 


5 . -OSI is proceeding to the establishment of a consulting group' 
of sufficient competence and stature to review this matter and convince 
the responsible authorities in the community that immediate research 
and development on this subject must' be undertaken. This can be done 
expeditiously under the aegis of CENIS. 






53 










6 . Attached hereto is a draft memorandum to the NSC and a simple 
draft NSC Directive establishing this ratter as a priority project 
throujhout the intelligence and the defense research and development 
community. 


i 


.. • 


. 




Attachments: • • j . 


Draft memo to NSC With 
draft Directive 




. KARSHAUj CHADVrS LL 
Assistant Director 
Scientific Intelligence 






54 






TO : UR. A. H. H UOXT | 


FROM : jr. p . I ^ 


subject: FLY I NO SAUCERS 




TE: July 29, 1962 




PURPOSE: 




To advise at thd present tine the Air Fo rce ha s ^ 


failed to arrive at any sat i sfnctory conclusion in 


its research regarding numerous reports of flying 8aucer^s_and_——— 
flying discs sighted throughout the United States. ” 




DETAILS: 




Ur. N . V. rhilcox, the Bureau's i4ir Force _LiaJjLOD 




SOB I 




Representative j made arrangements through the office of_ i .W* 


Uajor General John A. Salford, Director of Air Intelligence,\yj t 
ff.5. yjir Forcej to receive a briefing from Commander Randall.* 


Boyd of the Current Intelligence Branch, Estimates Division, 


Air Intelligence, regarding the present status of Air Intelligence 
research into the numerous reports regarding flying saucers 
and flying discs. 


Commander Boyd advised that Air Intelligence has 
set vp at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, the Air 
Technical Intelligence Center which has been established for 
the purpose of coordinating . correlating and making research 


into all reports regarding flying saucers and flying discs . __ 


Re advised that Air Force research has indicated that the & 


sightings of flying saucers goes back several centuries and 
that the number of sightings reported varies with the amount 
of publicity. He advisedlthat immediately if publicity appeafs 
in newspaper a, the number of sighting s reported increases 
considerably and that citizens immediately call in reporting 
sightings which occurred several months previously. Commander 
Boyd stated that these reported sightings of flying saucers 
are placed into three classifications by Air Intelligence: 


(1) Those sightings which are reported by citizens who 
claim they have seen flying saucers from the ground. 


These sightings vary i j description, color and speeds. 


Very little credence is given to these sightings 
inasmuch as in most instances they are believed to be 
imaginative or come explainable object which actually 
crossed through the sky. 


I 


(2) "i chtings reported by r f”" mt r e ial or military 
pilots. These stghtings r>*« considered more credible 


. n c <'d?r^.! f . _ . • / 




NTT: hke 




failffH-jLiL 


A: • • 




- 55 - 






by the Air Force inasmuch as commercial or military 
pilots are experienced in the air and are not 
expected to see objects which are entirely imaginative. 


In each of these instances , the individual who reports 
the sighting is thoroughly interviewed by a representative 
of Air Intelligence so that a complete description of 
the object sighted can be obtained. 


(3) Th ose sightings which are reported by pilots and_ 
for which there fa additional corroboration , such as_ 
recording by radar hr sighting from the . ground. 


Commander Boyd advised that this latter classification 
constitutes two or three per cent of the total number 
of sighttngs, but that they are the most credible 
reports received and are difficult to explain. Some 
of these stghtings are originally reported from the 
ground, then are observed by pilots in the air and then 
are picked up by radar instruments. Be stated that in 
these instances there is no doubt that these individuals 
reporting the sightings actually did see something in 
the sky. However , he explained that these objects could 
still be natural phenomena and still could be recorded 
on radar if there was some electrical disturbance in the 
sky. 




He stated that the flying saucers are most frequently 
observed iiTareas where there is heavy air traffic, such as 
lashington, D.C., and New York City. He advised , however j that 
some reports are ^received from other parts of the country „ 
covering the entire . Unit'ed States and that sightings-hava- also 
recently been reported as far distant as Acapulco, Uexico; 
lorea and French Uorocco . He advised that the_sightings 
reported in the last classification have never been satisfactorily 
explained He pointed out , however j. that ft is still possible _ 
that these objects may be a natural phenomenon or some type ~ 


1 of atmospherical disturbance. Be advised that it is not 
! entirely impossible that the objects sighted^may^po ssibly be _ 
i ships from another planet such as Bars. Be advised that at 


I the present time there is nothing to substantiate this theory 
but the possibility is not being overlooked. He stated that 
Air Intelligence is fairly certain that these objects are not 
rhins or missiles J^'om another nation in this world. Commander 
Boyd advised that intense research is being carried on presently 
ly /lir Intelligence, and at the present time when credible 
reportings of stghtings arc received, the Air Force is attempting 
in each instance to send! up jet interceptor planes in order to 




- 56 . 








56 






I 




obtain a better view of these objects, however, i recent - attempts 
in this regard have indicate d that when the pilot in the jet 
approaches the object it invariably fades from. view. 


FECOir rEI 'DATION : 


None. The foregoing is for your information. 








57 








o 




iSSUIDIE! FCRj Director of Central Intelligence 
TH3CCGH ’j Deputy Director (Intelligence) 


SD3J3CT * Flying Saucers 


. * F :< i • •• 4 * ’ • ' • 


: ; 1. Decently an inquiry '.as conducted by the Office of Scientific 


Intelligence to determine whether there are national security iapHcaticsa 
in the problem of "unidentified flying objects, 0 i.e., flying saucers; 
vhether adequate study and research is currently being directed to 
this problem in' its relation to such national security implications; 
and uhat further investigation and research should he instituted, 
by vhen, and under what aegis. 


2. It was found that the cnly v.iit of Gcverarant currently 
studying the problem is the Di -setcrate of Intelligence, C3AF, which 
has charged the Air Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC; vdth . 
responsibility for investigating the reports cf sightings.; At ATIC 
there is a group of three officers and two secretaries to which cena , 
through official channels , all reports of sightings. This group 
conducts investigation of the reports, consulting a3 required with 
other Air Force ar.d civilian technical personnel. A vcrld-vd.de 
reporting system las been instituted and major Air Force Bases have 
^ been ordered to raise interceptions cf unidentified flying objects. 


The research is being conducted on a case basis and is designed to 
provide a satisfactory explanation of each individual sighting. 


ATIC has concluded an arrangement v/ith Butte He Manorial Institute 
jX . for the latter to establish a mchire indexing system for official 
reports of sightings. 


! j . I • . # 


■' 3. Since 1947, ATIC has received approximately 1500 official 
reports cf sightings plus an enormous volume of letters, phone calls, 
and press reports. During July 1952 alone, official reports totaled 250. 
Of the 1500 reports. Air Force carries 20 percent as ur.exnlr ired and 
of those received from January through July 1952 it carries 23 percent' 
unexplained . I . w • . 


■ t 


4. In its inquiry iinto this problem, a team free CIA’s Office 
of Scientific Intelligence consulted with a representative of Air 
Force Special Studies Group; discussed the problem with those in charge 
of the Air Force Project at '..'rinht-Patterssn Air Force Base; reviewed 
a considerable volume of intelligence reports; che cited the Soviet 
press and broadcast indices; and conferred with three CIV consultants , 
who have braid tacwlodge of the technical areas concerned. • - 










58 








1 


1 : i 


:i 


l.,5 • 
& , 
L ] : 


L : 




o 






& 0 . 




5* tas found that tha ATIC study Is probably valid if the 
purpose is United to a case-by-case explanation. However, that 
study does not solve the core fundamental aspects of the problen. 


These aspects are to determine definitely the nature of the various 
phenomena which are causing these sightings, and to discover »-~m, 
by which these causes, and their visual or electronic effects, ray 
be identified irrndiately. The CIA consultants stated that these 
solutions would probably be found on the Kargins or Just beyond tbs 
frontiers 'of our present knowledge in the fields of atmospheric, 
ionospheric, and extraterrestrial phenaesna, with the added possibility 
that the present dispersal of nuclear waste products night also ■ 
be a factor. They reccmcended that a study grcuo be forced to perform 
three functions: : h-' >. , 


|T* i 1 '. . •:, * 


,»# analyze and systsmtize the factors which constitute 
the fundamental problem} . v 


b. determine the fields of fundr cental science which 
mat be investigated in order to reach an understanding of 
the phenomena involved; and • 


-V *: ' rj* * • * 


. c-. cake reeccasndatiors- for the initiation of appropriate- 


research. 


-s.-.L'. ' •" 


Dr. Julius A. Stratton, Vice President of the hhssachusetts Institute 
of Technology, has indicated to CIA that such a grcuo could be 
constituted at that Institute. Similarly, Project lincoln, the 
Air Peres's air defense project at I IT, could be charged with sens 
of these responsibilities, j 


, 6. The flying saucer situation contains two elements of danger 


wnich, in a situation of international tension, have national security 
implications. These are: \ 


a. Psycholcricr.l - Vith world-wide sightings reoorted, it 
ms found that, up to the tics of the investigation ,-there had 
been in the Soviet press no report or cement, even satirical, 
on flying saucers , though Gromyko had cads one humorous 
mention of the subject] '1/ith a State -controlled Dress, this 
could result only from an official policy decision. The 
question, therefore, arises as to whether or not these sightings: 


, (1) . could be controlled, . 


• •• . . : •. » tvA'-'' s-is; ar « 


(2) could be predicted, and 


(3) could be used froa a psychological warfare 


point of vi eu, either offensively or defensively. 




°0 








h 




s 


i. 




fl 




1 ' 






59 - 




59 














1 The public concern with the phenomena , which is reflected both \ 
in the United States press and in the pressure of inquiry upon the 
Air Force, Indicates that a fair proportion of our population 
is nentally conditioned to the acceptance of the incredible. 


In this fact lies the potential for the touching-off of mss 
... hysteria and panic, * 


V . S \ .... | * 


i _b. Air VulnerabilitT - The United States Air Warning Systea 


t will undoubtedly always depend upon a combination of radar screen- 
ing and visual observation. TheU.S.S.R. is credited with the 
present capability of delivering an air attach against the , 
s! " United States, yet at any given ncaent now, there cay be 
current a dozen official unidentified sightings plus nany 
*• unofficial ones. At any ncaent of attach, u are no \t in a 
position where ve cannot, on an instant basis, distinguish 
hardware froa phantca, and es tension nounts vb uill run the 
increasing rish of false alerts and the even greater danger 
of falsely identifying the real as phantca. 


7, Both of these problem are primarily operational in nature 
but each contains readily: apparent intelligence factors,... - 


• 8. Froa an operational point of view, three actions are 


required: 


a. Immediate steps should be taken to improve identification 
of both visual and electronic phantoa so that, in the event of 
an attack, instant aid positive identification of enemy planes 


or clssl-lss C 2 .n be rude. 


b. A study should be instituted to determine vfcat, if any, 
utilization could be race of these phenomena by United States 
psychological warfare planners and vhat, if any, defenses should 
be planned in anticipation of Soviet attempts to utilize then. 


c. la order to minimize risk. of panic, a national policy 
should be established as to vhat should be told the public 
regarding the phenomena, 


9. ; Other intelligence problem which require determination 
are: ‘ 


. a. The present level cf Soviet knowledge regarding 
,. v „, these phenomena. j • ...... ■ 


b. Possible Soviet intentions and capabilities to 
utilize these nhenomna to the detriment of United States 
security interests, i ^ . . ' 






60 














*'*’ ropa^n^.^ 30 " 9 f ° r 8llenCo la the Soviet press 
regarding flying saucers. y 




O'y 
^O. 




f O r 




f - St 2£5 


^t^i £ ence S «s^cL C iblS?i e °f " 


and analysis can be dlschar-ed ui-th rJ ilr *«”*?*“* toth eollectica 


■“> ”*■ *• 


a^jsSt ^^bSs^asssjsssx^. 


JM4d ” °~“*H •"«■ *«™i» ata „2tt„ 








* < 




r^.c/. 


/ g^ janssm. ceadveti. T 


Assistant Director — 
Seientifie Intelligence 






61 








3.8.2 Radar / Pilot Cases 




Introduction 


(transcribed and edited from an oral presentation by Dr. Greer) 


This area of testimony deals specifically with pilot encounters, radar cases and related cases. 
It should be pointed out that for decades, people who have been skeptical of the UFO subject 
have asserted that if these objects were real, they would have been tracked on radar. We have no 
fewer than 20 witnesses from the Air Force, the Marines, the Navy, the Army, and civilian 
authorities in the United States and abroad who are qualified air traffic controllers and pilots who 
have seen and tracked these objects on radar. Please note that these people state emphatically that 
these objects have not been weather balloons; they have not been air inversions; they have not 
been “swamp gas.” They have been structured craft often traveling at thousands of miles per 
hour, then suddenly stopping, hovering or moving in a nonlinear fashion. These objects have 
been tracked going from one spot to hundreds of miles away or further within one radar sweep. 
These are solid objects. They are metallic and they give strong and unambiguous radar returns. 


This is not a situation any more where we just have one or two witnesses, and one must 
consider this very seriously as you evaluate the evidence: To have more than a dozen of these 
witnesses on tape testifying that these objects have been tracked on radar, and at times as many as 
a dozen radars tracking at the same time, means that we are dealing with an actual, real, physical 
and technological craft — not something that is imaginary, not something that is a mass 
hallucination, and not something that can be written off as some kind of anomaly. As Air Force 
Colonel Charles Brown pointed out, the Air Force Project Grudge, as far back as 1950, had radar 
confirmation of these objects by ground radar, ground visual, airborne radar, and airborne visual 
- and, “It does not get any better than that.” Many of these witnesses have also observed these 
objects returning on multiple nights to similar areas and have checked out their equipment 
rigorously to be sure that there were no technical glitches in either the software or the hardware. 


This of course is explosive. The testimony of these witnesses forever puts to rest the 
argument that these objects don’t exist because we have, in addition to their testimony, the radar 
tracings; we have documentation of these events; and we have people who have been on the 
inside of such events ranging from the 1940s all the way up into the 1990s. 




Testimony of FAA Division Chief John Callahan 


October 2000 


For 6 years Mr. Callahan was the Division Chief of the Accidents and Investigations Branch 
of the FAA in Washington DC. In his testimony he tells about a 1986 Japanese Airlines 747 
flight that was followed by a UFO for 31 minutes over the Alaskan skies. The UFO also 
trailed a United Airlines flight until the flight landed. There was visual confirmation as well 
as air-based and ground-based radar confirmation. This event was significant enough for 
the then FAA Administrator, Admiral Engen, to hold a briefing the next day where the FBI, 
CIA, President Reagan’s Scientific Study Team, as well as others attended. Videotape radar 
evidence, air traffic voice communications and paper reports were compiled and presented. 
At the conclusion of this meeting, the attending CIA members instructed everyone present 




62 






that ‘the meeting never took place’ and that ‘this incident was never recorded’. Not 
realizing that there was additional evidence, they confiscated just the evidence presented, 
but Mr. Callahan was able to secure video tape and audio evidence of the event. 


JC: FAA Division Chief John Callahan SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


JC: I was the Division Chief of the Accidents and Investigations Branch of the FAA in 
Washington, D.C. I stayed there for about six years and then retired. 


This particular incident started with a phone call from the people in Alaska. He says, we got 
a problem here. I don’t know what to tell the media. The whole office is full of the media from 
Alaska. I said, what’s the problem? He said, well, it’s that UFO. I said, what UFO? He said, 
well last week we had a UFO chase a 747 across the skies up here for about 30 minutes or so and 
we didn’t think too much of it, he says. But apparently the word got out and we have all these 
news people here and we want to know what to tell them. 


So being an old Government employee, I told him what you always tell him. Tell them it is 
under investigation and then get all that data together. I wanted all the discs that they had and all 
the tapes that they had available flown overnight to the [FAA] tech center in Atlantic City. 


They called the military and they told the military they wanted all their tapes. The FAA 
controls all the airspace above the United States and its territory. It doesn’t belong to the 
military. It doesn’t belong to the guys shooting the rockets off. It belongs to the United States 
Government and it is controlled by the FAA. So I told him to get the military’s tapes and all their 


said, the military said they were short on their tapes and they had to put them back in service, 
but it’s only been 12 days. Now, the tapes were supposed to be kept for 15 days. 


The FAA Administrator sent my boss, who was the associate director of the FAA, and me 
down to Atlantic City to look at this thing to see if he had something to worry about. It took us 
two days to look at all the data. We went in and told him we wanted this room set up to be just 
like it was in Anchorage [during the encounter]. And we wanted all that data to come to this 
radarscope. And we wanted to see everything the controller saw. We wanted to hear everything 
he heard. And we wanted it all tied together, the radar, the digital radar and the sound. 


Some of the people that were working on that side of the fence and who were displaying this, 
had already reviewed the tapes, and they didn’t feel comfortable showing us what was on there. 
But we looked at all of it. 


When the Air Traffic Controller had asked the military man, do you see anything? The 
military guy says, yes, I have a target at such and such, 1 :00 and eight miles from the Japanese 
pilot, 747. 


The way it started is there was a Japanese Airline 747, was coming from the northwest going 
across the Alaskan territory. And he was at either 31,000, 33,000, or 35,000 feet. And it was 
around 1 1 :00 at night, but you can check the real times. He called and asked the Controller if the 
Controller had any traffic at his altitude. And the Controller said, no. Basically it was a midnight 
operation and they didn’t have too much traffic. And he said, well I have a target at my 1 1 :00 or 
1:00 position about eight miles away. 


Now in the 747 they have radar in the nose that picks up the weather outside there. So his 
radar is picking up a target. He sees this target with his eyes. And the target, the way he 




63 






described it, was a huge ball with lights running around it. And I think he said it was like four 
times as big as a 747! 


And the military man said something like, yeah, I see him 35 miles north of Anchorage. And 
who’s that at 1 1:00 or 1:00 in his position? And the FAA Controller said, I don’t have anybody 
[any regular traffic]? Do you have anybody? The military controller said, it’s not mine. 


ATC called the military controller and asked them if they had anybody out there. And they 
said no, all their traffic was on the west side. And he came back and said, we have no traffic 
here. And a couple of times during the operation, the Japanese pilot would say, he’s now at 
11:00, he’s now at 1:00, he’s now at 3:00. The UFO was bouncing around the 747 here. And 
when he would say that, the military guy would cut in and say, he’s now at 2:00 or 3:00 and he 
would confirm the position. The military controller has, what they call, height-finding radar, and 
they have long-range radar and short-range radar. So if they don’t catch it on one of their systems 
they catch it on the other. And if you listen to the military man, at one time he said, I have it on 
the height radar, or my range radar, which indicated that they had a target on his system. Well 
they ran through for the best part of 3 1 minutes. The UFO would be in one position or the other 
following the Japanese 747. After a while they changed his altitude and it still stayed with him. 
They gave him a 360. When you are a 747 and you make a 360, it takes you a few minutes to 
turnaround. You cover a lot of space. And it still stayed with him. It was either in the front, on 
the side, or behind him. They would see it at 1 :00 in front of the 747 seven or eight miles [away]. 
And then on the next sweep, which would be like 10 seconds later, it would be behind him, seven 
or eight miles. And it always stayed seven or eight miles away from the target. 


[Note the familiar non-linear maneuvers of this UFO, covering many miles in less than 10 
seconds. This is corroborated by dozens of other UFO-radar events in the testimony of many 
other witnesses. SGJ 


When it was all done and we went back to Washington the next day, the Administrator [of the 
FAA] had called down and wanted to know if he had a problem or not. And my boss had told 
him, well we took a video of it and it looks like there might have been something there. Well the 
FAA Administrator said can you come up and give us a quick five-minute run-down of what 
happened? So we go up to the 10 th floor [of FAA Headquarters in Washington DC] and give a 
four or five minute debriefing for the Administrator who was at the time Admiral Engen. He 
said, well have you got that video with you? Can you show me the video? I said, yeah, you just 
plug it in and play it. 


So we plugged it in for him. He started watching it and after about five minutes, he told his 
staff to cancel his meetings. So he watched the whole thing, just over a half an hour. 


We get all done, and he says, what do you guys think? My boss gave a good political answer 
and he said he wasn’t sure what it was... So his take was, don’t talk to anybody. And don’t talk 
to anybody until I give you the okay. Then the next day I got a call from someone with the 
Scientific Study Group [for President Reagan], or the CIA, I’m not sure who it was, the first call. 
And they had some questions about the incident. And I had said, I don’t know what you are 
talking about; you probably want to call the Admiral [FAA Administrator Engen]. 


Well a few minutes later the Admiral calls down and says, I have set up a briefing tomorrow 
morning at 9:00 am in the round room. Bring all the stuff you have. Bring everybody up there 
and give them whatever they want. We want to get out of it. Just let them do whatever they 
want. So I brought all the people from the Tech Center. We had all kinds of boxes of data that 




64 






we had them print out; it filled up the room. They brought in three people from the FBI, three 
people from the CIA, and three people from Reagan’s Scientific Study team — I don’t know who 
the rest of the people were but they were all excited. 


We let them watch the video. Then they had all kinds of questions about the frequency, the 
rate of the antennae turning, on and on and on, how many radar’s, how many antennas, how does 
the data get processed. They were all excited — the only way a man would be if that was his job. 
When they got done, they actually swore all these other guys in there that this never took place. 
We never had this meeting. And this was never recorded. 


SG: Who said that? Who was saying that? 


JC: This was one of the guys from the CIA. Okay? That they were never there and this 
never happened. At the time I said, well I don’t know why you are saying this. I mean, there was 
something there and if it’s not the stealth bomber, then you know, it’s a UFO. And if it’s a UFO, 
why wouldn’t you want the people to know? Oh, they got all excited over that. You don’t even 
want to say those words. He said this is the first time they ever had 30 minutes of radar data on a 
UFO. And they are all itching to get their hands onto the data and to find out what it is and what 
really goes on. He says if they come out and told the American public that they ran into a UFO 
out there, it would cause panic across the country. So therefore, you can’t talk about it. And they 
are going to take all this data. So I said, okay, take all the data if that’s what you want. 


SG: Who took that data? 


JC: Well, that group. I don’t know who it went to, but that group took it. But they took 
only what we had there. They didn’t ask me if there was anything else that I had. They said, they 
are taking all this data. And I said, fine. Now, I had the original video that I took and I had the 
pilot’s report that came through, the first report. And I had the FAA’s first report that was all 
downstairs on my table. 


They didn’t ask for that so I didn’t give it to them. And later on when I retired, that was the 
stuff that was in my office and all that came with me. And we’ve been sitting on it ever since. 


[We have obtained all of these materials, including the radar video, ATC voice transcripts, 
the FAA report, and the computer printouts of the event. SG] 


At the end, the Japanese 747 is leaving the airspace, and there’s a United Airlines flight 
coming up to land in Alaska. The Controller says to the United, we’ve got a Japanese 747 up 
here and he’s being chased, followed, by a UFO and we’d like you to check him out. Can we 
leave you at that altitude? And the United says, fine, or sure. And so they give him a left turn, 20 
degrees or so, keep him at his altitude and they kind of run him in toward the Japanese 747. 


Once the two airplanes pass, that target [UFO] follows the United down through the airspace 
until he gets on final approach and then the UFO just disappears. 


Well when they read the reports that came through the FAA decided it had to protect 
themselves — you can’t say you saw a target, even though this is what he said. So they made him 
change his report to say “position symbols,” which makes it sound like it wasn’t really a target. 
Well if it’s not a target then a lot of the other position symbols that we are separating [on radar] 
aren’t targets either. And when I read that, I thought oh, there is something fishy here, that 
somebody is worried about something or other and they are trying to cover up. 




65 






When the CIA told us that this never happened and we never had this meeting, I believe it 
was because they didn’t want the public to know that this was going on. Normally we would put 
out some type of a news release that such and such happened. 


And I think it was mysterious that the military tapes disappeared. It wasn’t right. We went 
from 30 days to 15 days [for the time period required to keep radar tapes]. And the first 
indication makes it look like it, the military, knew more than we did about who the visitors were 
and they didn’t want anybody else to know. And of course the people that are involved at the 
lower levels don’t really know what is going on above them. When someone calls up and says 
put those tapes back in service, they just put them back in service. They really don’t care. 


When they asked me what I thought I told them that it looked like we had a UFO that was up 
there. The reason it wasn’t [consistently] on the FAA’s tapes was because it was too large of an 
aircraft, and it was picked up as weather, so we wouldn’t record it. [The system is programmed 
to filter out such things]. The pilot, the Japanese pilot did see it. The Japanese pilot drew 
pictures of it. Eventually they gave the Japanese pilot a hard time because of what he said. He 
was embarrassing his country. 


[The tragedy of this JAL 747 pilot is a poignant reminder of the power of ridicule in keeping 
this subject secret. The pilot was forced to take a desk job for a prolonged period and was 
humiliated. See the testimony of former NASA research scientist Dr. Richard Haines regarding 
his knowledge of the event and how he helped get the pilot flying again. SGJ 


Our military controllers said they had seen it. Our FAA controllers said they had seen it. Our 
FAA controllers, after a period of time, came back and said they really didn’t see a target, that 
they saw something else, which makes it sound like somebody is helping them fill out their 
reports. And that looked suspicious. 


But who do you tell that you were involved in a UFO incident without them looking at you 
like you ain’t wrapped too tight? And this I think is the way our country is set up now. The only 
ones that see a UFO in the TV programs are the rednecks out in the country that are going coon 
hunting or alligator hunting at night. You don’t find anybody with any kind of smarts or some 
professional individual saying hey, last night let me tell you what I saw. They don’t display that 
in the United States. So if you talk about seeing a UFO, you are putting yourself in a funny kind 
of category. That’s probably one of the reasons why you don’t hear about it anymore. But as far 
as I’m concerned, I saw a UFO chase a Japanese 747 across the sky for over half an hour on 
radar. And it’s faster than anything that I know of in our Government. 


Well, I’ve been involved in a lot of cover-ups with the FAA. When we gave the presentation 
to the Reagan staff I was behind the group that was there. And when they were speaking to the 
people in the room, they had all those people swear that this never happened. But they never had 
me swear it never happened. And it always bothered me that we have these things going on and 
when you see something or you hear something on the radio or TV, the news, that it’s put down 
as it’s not there. I have a hard time saying nothing. 


It still bothers me that I’ve seen all this, I know all this, and I’m walking around with the 
answer, and nobody wants to ask the question to get the answer. And it kind of irritates me a 
little bit. And I don’t believe our Government should be set up that way. I think when we have 
something like this, that you can probably find out more about what’s going on in the world [by 
not covering it up]. If they [the UFO’s] can travel that far, that distance with that type of 




66 






machinery, who knows what they could do here for the health of the nation, the people, the food 
they could give them, the cancers we could cure. They have to know more than us to be able to 
travel at that speed. 


For those people that say that if these UFO’s existed, they would some day be on radar and 
that there’ d be professionals who would see it, then I can tell them that back in 1986 there were 
enough professional people that saw it. It was brought down to headquarters, FAA headquarters, 
Washington D.C. The Administrator saw the tape of it. The people that we were debriefing, 
they’ve all seen. Reagan’s Scientific Study team, three of those professors, doctors, they’ve seen 
it. As far as I was concerned they were the ones that verified my own thoughts about it. They 
were very, very excited about the data. They had said that this was the only time a UFO was ever 
recorded on radar for any length of time where it is 30 some minutes. And they have all this data 
to look at. 


Now a 30-minute radar return filled up boxes across the room, and the boxes were stacked, 
you know, two or three high. There was a lot of paper there to look at. They knew the frequency 
now of the radar. They knew how fast it turned. They knew where it was. They had the military 
that confirmed it. 


And yet I think the way the Government wants the outside people to view those that have 
seen something like this is like they are kooks, like they’re not wrapped too tight. And you’ve 
got to watch out for them. That’s the image that they put out. I guess I really don’t care about the 
image... 


SG: Do you recall the names of the CIA people and others at this meeting at FAA 


Headquarters? 


JC: When I gave him my card the CIA guy said, “you know, we are with the company (they 
don’t say CIA). In the company, we don’t have cards. We don’t have company cards.” They 
may have a card, but it’s nothing to do with the company. And he said that there’s nothing we 
can give out. On the Admiral’s calendar, they should have who reserved the room and who was 
there for the day of the briefing. 


What I can tell you is what I’ve seen with my own eyes. I’ve got a videotape. I’ve got the 
voice tape. I’ve got the reports that were filed that will confirm what I’ve been telling you. And 
I’m one of those, what you would call the high Government officials in the FAA. I was a 
Division Chief. I was only three or four down from the Admiral. We investigated all the airline 
incidents, all the accidents. 


[Indeed those who would say that these objects are not real because there is no proof of them 
recorded on radar and being analyzed by competent professionals, can now stand corrected. 
Presented here is a very senior FAA official stating on the record that the event happened and 
that the CIA and other Government officials ordered the event be kept secret and who confiscated 
(or so they thought) the evidence. We are profoundly grateful for the courage shown by Mr. 
Callahan in coming forward and in preserving and conveying the evidence of this case. SG] 




67 








Tab 1 


Index 


Tab 2 


Chronology of Events 


Tab 3 


Transcription 


Tab 4 


Flight Path Chart 


Tab 5 


Personnel Statements 


Tab 6 


Daily Record of Facility Operations, 




FAA Form 7230-4 


Tab 7 


Position Logs, FAA Form 7230-10 


Tab 8 


ZAN EARTS Continuous Data Recordings, 


j 


(radar tracking data). 




: ; DRAFT : 


1 


- 68 - ~ 




68 








© 


US Department 
of Transportation 


Federal Aviation 
Administration 




Memorandum 




Anchorage ARTCC 
5400 Davis Hwy. 
Anchorage, Alaska 




Subject: INFORMATION: Transcription concerning the 


incident involving Japan Airlines Flight 1628 
on November 18, 1986 at approximately 0218 UTC. 


From: Quentin J, Gates 


Air Traffic Manager, 


ANC ARTCC 




Date: 




Repiy to 
Attn, o I: 




January 9, 198 




To: 




SS to!” ““ ,r “ »»«■>»■• 1986, 0216 OIC «< 




Agencies Making Transmissions 


Abbreviations 




Japan Airlines Flight 1628 


JL1628 


Anchorage ARTCC Combined Sector R/D15 


R/D15 


Anchorage ARTCC Sector D15 


D15 


Anchorage ARTCC Sector R15 


R15 


Regional Operations Command Center 


ROCC 


United Airlines Flight 69 


UA69 


T0TEM71 






TOTEM 


Fairbanks Approach Control 


APCH 


conversatimt^ ^Jert^^i^Ln^to^th^sub ject iU^t^ 8 ^ 100 


of the recorded 


'-y Anth^jr^ M. Wyli^/ — 


Qu^lty Assurance Specialist 
Anchorage ARTCC 






69 








© Memorandum 


U.S. Deportment 
of Transportation 


Federal Aviation 
Administration 




Subject: INFORMATION : Unidentified Traffic Sighting Date: \ 8 1386 


by Japan Airlines 


Reply to 


• From: Air Traffic Manager, Anchorage ARTCC, ZAN-1 Attn, ot: 




To: Manager, Air Traffic Division, AAL-500 


ATTN: Evaluation Specialist, AAL-514 




The attached chronology summarizes the communications and actions of 
Japan Airlines Flight 1628 on November 18, 1986. 


Radar data recorded by Anchorage Center does not confirm the presence of 
the traffic reported by Flight 1628. No further information has been 
received from civil or military sources since the date of the sightings. 


Major Johnson of the Elmendorf Regional Operations Command Center (ROCC) 
is checking their re'cords; and the operations personnel for further 
details. He will forward any additional information to Anchorage Center 
as soon as possible. 


Should you have any questions or need additional Information, contact 
Tony Wylie, Quality Assurance Specialist, 269-1162. 


Original signed by 


Quentin J. Gates 




Attachment 




t e VS , *§ 


I 




V L. 






70 






The following is a chronological summary of the alleged aircraft 
sightings by Japan Airlines Flight 1628, on November 18, 1986: 


All times listed are approximate UTC unless otherwise specified. 




0219 - The pilot of JL1628 requested traffic information from the ZAN Sector 
15 controller. When the controller advised there was no traffic in 
the vicinity, JL1628 responded that they had same direction traffic, 
approximately 1 mile in front, and it appeared to be at their 
altitude. When queried about any identifiable markings, the pilot 
responded that they could only see white and yellow strobes. 




0225 - JL1628 informed ZAN that the traffic was now visible on their radar, 
in their 11 o'clock position at 8 miles. 


,,<& . , . 


02 2|b r. Z AN c on t a c t e d the Military Regional Operations Control Center, (ROCC), 
and /asked if they were receiving any radar returns near the position 
of "JL1628. The ROCC advised that they were receiving a primary radar 
return in JL1628's 10 o'clock position at 8 miles. 


0227 - The ROCC contacted ZAN to advise they were no longer receiving any 
radar returns in the vicinity of JL1628. 




0231 - JL1628 advised that the "plane” was "quite big”, at which time the ZAN 
controller approved any course deviations needed to avoid the traffic. 




0232 - JL1628 requested and received a descent from FL350 to FL310. When 
asked if the traffic was descending also, the pilot stated it was 
descending "in formation” . 




0235 - JL1628 requested and received a heading change to two one zero. The 


aircraft was now in the vicinity of Fairbanks and ZAN contacted 
Fairbanks Approach Control asking if they had any radar returns near 
JL1628's position. The Fairbanks Controller advised they did not. 


0236 - JL1628 was issued a 360 degree turn and asked to inform ZAN if the 


traffic stayed with them. 


0238 - The ROCC called ZAN advising they had confirmed a "flight of two" in 


JL1628' s position. They advised they had some "other equipment 
watching this", and one was a primary target only. 


0239 - JL1628 told ZAN they no longer had the traffic in sight. 


0242 - The ROCC advised it looked as though the traffic had dropped back and 
to the right of JL1628, however, they were no longer tracking it. 


0244 - JL1628 advised the traffic was now at 9 o'clock 




0245 - ZAN issued a 10 degree! turn to a northbound United Airlines flight, 
after pilot concurrence^ in an attempt to confirm the traffic. 


0248 - JL1628 told ZAN the traffic was now at 7 o'clock, 8 miles. 








r 




0250 - The northbound United Flight advised they had the Japan Airlines 
flight in sight, against a light background, and could not see any 
other traffic. 


0253 - JL1628 advised they no longer had contact with the traffic. 




A subsequent review of ANC ARTCC's radar tracking data failed to confirm any 
targets in close proximity to JL1628. 








- 72 




72 








PERSONNEL STATEMENT 
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 
Anchorage Air Route Traffic Control Center 




The following is a report concerning the incident to aircraft JL1628 ™ 
November 18, 1986 at 0230 OTC. arc JL16Z8 on 


My name is Carl E. Henley (HC) I am employed as an Air r - •> 


S3". « ^VS'EJSrai 7 .- TL‘°JZ ' "£ E-n “■ 


from 0156 UTC, November 18, 1986 to 0230UTC, November is! 1986. P ° n 


At approximately 0225Z while monitoring JL1628 on Sector 15 radar the 
a f r ? r ff t re 2 uested tr affic information. I advised no traffic in his 
vicinity. The aircraft advised he had traffic 12 o'clock same altitude t 
asked JL1628 if he would like higher/lower altitude and the pilot replied 


and to^s'ee If thev" had^ T° * "" ±f ^ had mllltary trafflc in the aS 
°°: o ‘ 4 rl f h y h d P rimar y targets in the area. ROCC did have primarv 


tss, 1 h * d 


.1 « ->•* is 


*£ 


«h. h“ A.” « * V5Eriul te *“ b ; £ h * 


traffic, by this time J11628 h/d 1“* JL1628 flight but reported no other 


would take a look, I vectored him tower/ rh /, 4 t d P lent y of fuel and 


he also had no contact. d the fll8ht and climbed him to FL240, 


He'could STSZFg repo“ed t ihite th and tyPe ir “ rUn «- ° f ^ ^^raft. 




(W &>. (Ti.., 


November 19, 1986 ^ 


DRAFT 


- 73 - 




73 






PERSONNEL STATEMENT 




FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 
Anchorage Air Route Traffic Control Center 




January 9, 1987 




The following is a report concerning the incident involving aircraft JL1628 
north of Fairbanks, Alaska on November 18, 1986 at 0218 UTC. 


My name is Samuel J. Rich (SR). I am employed as an Air Traffic Control 
Specialist by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Anchorage Air Route 
Traffic Control Center, Anchorage, Alaska. 


During the period of 0035 UTC, November 18, 1986, to 0835 UTC, November 18, 
1986, I was on duty in the Anchorage ARTCC. I was working the D15 position 
from 0230 UTC, November 18, 1986, to 0530 UTC, November 18, 1986. 


I returned from my break at approximately 0218 UTC to relieve Mr. Henley on 
the sector R/D15 position. In the process of relieving Mr. Henley I heard the 
pilot of JL1628 ask if we had any traffic near his position. I continued to 
monitor the position as Mr. Henley was too busy to give me a relief briefing. 
I monitored the situation for approximately twelve minutes at which time I 
assumed the D15 position and Mr. Henley moved to the R15 position. During the 
twelve minute period I hear(j the JL1628 pilot report the color of the lights 
were white and yellow. After the radar scale was reduced to approximately 
twenty miles I observed a radar return in the poition the pilot had reported 
traffic. j e 


After assuming the D15 position I called the ROCC at approximately 0230 UTC to 
ask if they had any military traffic operating near JL1628. The ROCC said 
they had no military traffic in the area. I then asked them if they could see 
any traffic near JL1628. ROCC advised that they had traffic near JL1628 in 
the same position we did. 


I asked ROCC if they had any aircraft to scramble on JL1628, they said they 
would call back. I received no further communication regarding the request 
for a scramble. — - .... 






Air Traffic Control Specialist 
Anchorage ARTCC 




74 










PERSONNEL STATEMENT 


FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 
Anchorage Air Route Traffic Control Center 




January 9, 1986 


uw f /°ni°«n n f ? report concerning the Incident to Japan Airlines Flight 
1628 ( JL1628) North of Fairbanks, Alaska on November 18, 1986 at 0218 UTC. ' 


My name is John L. Aarnink (AA). I am employed as an Air Traffic Control 
Specialist by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Anchorage Air Route 
Traffic Control Center (ARTCC), Anchorage, Alaska. During the period of 2230 
UTC, November 17, 1986 to 0630 November 18, 1986 I was on duty in the 
Anchorage ARTCC. I was working the C15 position from approximately 0218 UTC 
November 18, 1986 to 0250 UTC, November 18, 1986. 


. i 


I was on my way to take a break when I noticed the unusual activity at the 
Sector 15 positions. I plugged' into the C15 position and assisted them by 
answering telephone lines, making and taking handoffs and coordinating as 
necessary. As to the specific incident, I monitored the aircrafts 


transmissions and observed data on the radar that coinsided with information 
that the pilot of JL1628 reported. I coordinated with the R0CC on the BRAVO 


and CHARLIE lines. They confirmed they also saw data in the same location. 


At approximately abeam CAWIN intersection, I no longer saw the data and the 
pilot advised he no longer saw: the traffic. I called the R0CC and they 


advised they had lost the target. I then unplugged from the position and 
went on a break. 




<John L. Aarnink 
Air Traffic Control Specialist, 
Anchorage ARTCC 






75 






Testimony of Sgt. Chuck Sorrells, US Air Force (ret.) 


December 2000 




Chuck Sorrells is a career Air Force military man who was at Edwards Air Force Base 
in 1965 when not one, but at least seven UFOs appeared over Edwards Air Force Base 
airspace, moving in extraordinary fashion at enormous speeds, making right-hand turns 
and other maneuvers which no known aircraft was capable of at the time. They 
appeared on multiple radars, were seen visually by several people, and a special UFO 
officer scrambled and authorized a jet to intercept these objects. This event lasted for 
five or six hours. An edited transcript of the audio tape of the event follows his 
testimony. 


CS: Sgt. Chuck Sorrells SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


CS: My name is Chuck Sorrells. I went into the Air Force in 1954 and retired in 1974. I 
was a Tech Sergeant. Most of the time I was an Air Traffic Controller. I’ve been at Edwards Air 
Force Base in California, and in Japan, Thailand, Alaska, and several places in the states. 


This event happened October the 7 th of 1965 at Edwards Air Force Base. It was on a 
midnight shift and I was the Air Traffic Controller on duty in the tower. At about 1:30 or so in 
the morning, I noticed this real bright light to the east of my tower. It was a light green and it had 
a red light underneath it. The red light was a pulsating type light, and it had a white light on top 
that just glowed. It was very bright and quite large. I observed it for quite a while, because there 
wasn’t any aircraft in the area at the time. I called the dispatcher down at the base operations and 
the weatherman that was on duty that night (the forecaster), and got them all to go outside and 
take a look. I had one of the guys from the interceptor detachment that was on the base look also, 
and I had the captain down there look. We talked about it for a while, and the RAP-CON people 
(that’s radar people on the base) didn’t have any aircraft in the area at the time. 


We called it down to the Air Defense people at Los Angeles defense sector. The director 
down there called around to his sites, and at one point in time they had at least four different radar 
sites that were getting radar returns on it. [The UFOs] were getting seen at a couple of other 
towers, like George Tower, and there were a couple of other places that were seeing them. So, 
there were several people on the ground looking at these UFOs, and about four radar sites 
[looking at them]. This [went] back and forth and back and forth for two or three hours. They 
finally decided to scramble an aircraft on it, to go up and take a look at it. This was coordinated 
with the other, higher headquarters, and I think NORAD was involved. 


[See the testimony of military air traffic controller Michael Smith regarding NORAD being 
involved in this unambiguous UFO case, their denials notwithstanding. SG] 


The jet [went] up to take a look at it, and they tried to run him in to intercept these targets. At 
the very beginning, I had one — the big, large light. Some time later, it was just sitting there, 
mostly stationary, but it was too close to the horizon to be a star or anything like that. It was 
down below the mountains [and] the hills and stuff, so it wasn’t a star, [and] I couldn’t correlate 
for what it could possibly be. Then, all of a sudden, there [were] three more objects, and they had 
similar characteristics as far as the lighting [was] concerned. But these three stayed together. 
They stayed in a formation and stayed together, and then moved down to the south of me and sat 
there, stationary, for a while. A little later on, three more appealed], but these three [were] 




76 






individual ones. They would fly individually around and go north, south, east, west — a lot of 
maneuvers. At this point I had seven of them at one time. This is when they decided to scramble 
the jet interceptor. It was getting way up in the early morning hours by that time. 


They were having no luck intercepting these UFOs. They kept asking me, in the tower, where 
was this object in relation to the airplane? The only thing I could do was line him up with my 
runway, where 1 knew what heading he was on in relation to where I was. Then, as soon as he’d 
get to the end of the runway. I’d tell him to turn to a certain heading and head straight forward. 
Well, about three different times that night, he’d say “contact”, and that “contact” means he had 
contact with something on his radar in the cockpit of the aircraft. What it was, we don’t know to 
this day. But they were real. 


At one point in time the interceptor was up to 40,000 feet. When he went near the object, the 
object just rose real fast, real sudden, straight up, and he just went under it. There’s a place on the 
tape where the Director says, “How’s he looking, tower?” And I said, he’s low. He [replied], 
“Well, he’s at 40,000 feet,” and I said, I don’t care — he’s still low. 


[The tape he refers to is an audiotape of the actual conversations of this hours-long 
encounter. We have this tape. Refer to the transcript of this tape below. SGJ 


That UFO just went way high. They searched on their radar, the height finders, and 
everything for it. I highly suspect it was above their radars at that point. 


SG: How high would that be? 


CS: Probably 100,000 feet or something like that. 80,000 to 100,000 feet was probably their 
capability back in those days. 


The interceptor did have contact about three different times, and then he’d lose it. These 
objects played around there for the remainder of my shift. About daylight, the UFOs started 
getting higher and higher and higher in the atmosphere. By the time it was light enough that you 
wouldn’t see the rest of the stars, they were gone too — they just disappeared into the 
atmosphere. 


I know craft of all types, so I know a lot of things this was not. I know it was not a 
helicopter. I know it was not an airplane. I know it was not a balloon— a weather balloon or any 
other type of balloon. I know it was no known aircraft or flying object that we know of today, or 
at that time. And it wasn’t a laser show. It wasn’t anything like that, but they could move real 
fast. They could be to the east of my field, and then in just a short period of time they could be to 
the west. They could probably go 30-40 miles in the time you could snap your fingers twice. I 
mean, just fast! And they could rise — just go straight up. It seemed like they could do that 
instantaneously. At some points they would hover and just sit for a long period of time — then 
they would move. The smaller three individual ones had a lot more movement than the other 
ones. The original very large UFO didn’t move all that much. After a couple of hours, though, it 
moved a little bit from the east, down a little bit toward the south, and then moved back toward 
the east a little bit again — like that. But it didn’t make any sudden, fast movements until they 
tried to run an intercept on it, and then it went straight up. 


The three that were flying around individually would dart north, south, east, [and] west, and 
they were the ones that really went fast. They were the ones that were actually nearer to the base 
and nearer to the ground. I judged that their altitude would be around 2,000 feet or less at times. 




77 






I know that we were getting radar cuts on them. I’d find a cut anywhere from 4,000 to 10,000 
[or] 1 1,000 feet. So, that’s pretty low to the surface. 


These UFOs had to be something that would return a radar signal, and that had to be 
something solid and metal. Radar is a very simple thing: it’s a radio beam that hits something, 
bounces off something, and comes back. So, it had to be something the radar would bounce off, 
and it wouldn’t bounce off a rubber balloon or anything like that. It would have to be something 
with a metallic nature that would cause it to bounce back and make an indication on your radar 
screen. 


SG: Can you estimate the speed of these objects? 


CS: It would have to be in the thousands of miles per hour — up in that area, speed wise. 
These things would have to be very, very fast. The radar people were having a hard time 
determining [their] speed because they’d be in one place and they’d sit for a little while, and then 
they’d move real fast. By the time the radar screen got around to finding them, the UFO was 
already at another location. It was very difficult to get any kind of a speed on them. You could 
be watching one in the east, and if you looked around for a little bit, if your attention was diverted 
someplace else for just a minute, you’d look back and he’d be over in the west. They could make 
quick turns and had all sorts of maneuverability that we didn’t know anything about at the time. 
It was a very strange evening. 


These events happened over at least a four-hour timeframe. In those days, every base had 
what they called a UFO officer — an unidentified flying object officer. We had one, and he was 
the guy that actually gave the order to take a look at this thing. The Air Defense Director for the 
Los Angeles defense sector and the radar controllers wanted to take a look at it, but they had to 
get his say-so before they could go ahead and do it legally. 


At that point in time at Edwards Air Force Base, we had a rocket site. They were 
experimenting with a whole lot of different fuel combinations, and they were doing a lot of rocket 
bums over there just to see what thrust they could get. From my standpoint, that looked like the 
area where this huge UFO was just sitting — just about over that rocket site. 


The F-106 that they did scramble that night was what they call a cold bird. It wasn’t armed in 
any way. 


SG: During your Air Force career, did you hear of other people having these types of 
encounters with UFOs? 


CS: Yes, there were. I’ve heard guys talk about seeing things like that, but they wouldn’t 
necessarily come forward and say what they had seen, because they didn’t want the stigma 
attached to them that they were crazy or they were seeing things. Or they didn’t want the ribbing 
that they were going to get from their buddies. 


The tape that is in existence now of the event that night is made up of radio patches and 
telephone patches that were recorded at the various radar sites that were involved. There would 
be another tape as well, someplace, from the tower that 1 was in, because everything that was 
going on in the tower [was] recorded. 


The [largest number of] objects that I saw at any one time was seven. There was one large 
one, and then there [were] three smaller ones with the same type characteristics, but these three 




78 






kind of stayed together. At a certain point after this, there were three other ones that were flying 
around individually, but at one point, I had as many as seven, visually, at one time. From hearing 
the tapes now, I hear that there might have been as many as 1 1 in the area that night. 


I can’t tell you what [they were], but I can tell you a lot of things [they weren’t]. [There 
isn’t] anything that we know of today that has those types of characteristics — could do the 
maneuvers and do the speed, with no sound. At some points, they were close enough to the tower 
that if it had been a jet or something, I would have heard the sound from it. I wish I knew what 
they were... 


[This extremely important case involves a seasoned Air Force Air Traffic Controller, an 
official “UFO officer”, 4 separate radar stations, lock-on from on-board radar on a jet 
interceptor, many hours, and many objects over several hours. The debunkers and those who 
would ridicule the UFO matter need to be able to explain away all of these elements— and the 
voice tape of the actual event. The only conclusion is the obvious one: these UFOs were real and 
were not swamp gas, ball lightning, hallucinations, or any of the other absurd explanations 
offered by academia and officialdom for these events. SGJ 




79 






Excerpts from Edward Air Force Base Audio tape - 1965 




Code: 


P = Voices of various Pilots; 


A = Voices of various ATCs; 


0= Voices of various Officers; 


H = Height coverage officer; 


Pedro = San Pedro station; 


FS = Flight Supervisor 


A: Do you get anything between Victorville and Edwards? 


P: Here’s one out here. 


A: Does it appear now that hey are moving away and moving out? 


P: [too faint to copy] 


A: They’re going, huh? 


P: I already . . . officer ... I don’t think got here in time to see ‘em. They’re going up. 


A: Hum. Does it look like they are moving away and moving out? 


P: Yes, it sure does. They’re goin’. The ones to the south, they’re going straight up. All of them 
are. 


A: Hum. About how many were there? 


P: At one time I had several. 


A: Uh huh. 


P: At the present time I have 1-2-3-4-5 rising too. 


A: Are those five also rising? 


P: All five of ‘em are rising. 


P: Well Sir, they are all rising now 
O: (Clark) is that right? 


P: Yes sir: They’re all going up now. 


O: (Clark) Okay, you’ve got one bright star just about south of us. Where from that? You know, 
that bright one - 1 think it’s about a 45-degree angle up. 


P: All of them from here now, that the red light has stopped and they all appear to be heading 




O: Is that right? 


A: I’m gonna’ watch that bright one again. 


O: Okay 


[Voices in background are relating what pilot says through a radio or phone, talking to other 
parties.] 


P: There’s 3-4 of them, well south and dim. 


P: I still red light occasionally out of one of them. 


O: Where are they from that big bright one? 


P: Beneath them and just a little bit south. And there’s three of ‘em almost in a straight line. 
O: Uh huh. 


P: Almost horizontal 




80 






O: I see. 


P: And I still see a red light occasionally form those, but not from the big one. 


P: This space - this space officer that has been observing this here with me all night. Here, let me 
get him back on and see if he is getting the same impressions of it I’m getting. I don’t like to be 
the only one seeing these type things. 


A: Roger [laughs] 


O: The man says the tower boy there is froze. He has had somebody confirm his story. He said 
they are all pulling up at a very rapid rate right now. 


A: Well, we’ll wait and go. All we need is their request. 


O: Alright sir. 


A: We’ve lost radar contact with them. 


O: is on the other phone. I might get a consultation to see if he’s seeing the same thing 


I’m ... it appears to me that they are all rising in altitude rapidly. It would appear to be. Yep. 
How about the bright up? Does it appear to be straight up? How about straight - that’s much 
higher now than when we first say it. Y eah. 


O: It’s (a name -can’t make out) again. Base Ops confirms my - what I’m seeing. They are all 
rising and the weather man in Base Ops has been observing these things all night with me and he 
has been using reference points to try to judge if they’re moving. 


O: Right. 


O: And he confirms that they are very much higher now than what they were. They are, they are 
definitely going up. 


O: Do you have any estimate on the altitude now? 


O: I’d hate to venture a guess. I would say something like maybe 30,000 - 40,000, but now this is 
strictly way out . . .off the eyeball guess. 


O: Not on my low altitude? 


O: No sir, I wouldn’t say. Not nearly what they were. At first sighting on that one, I would have 
judged it’s altitude to be no more than, at the most, 5,000 ft. 


O: Well, we had some measured altitude, but, but said UFO officer was gonna’ want us to take a 
look. We were waiting to go. But I haven’t heard anything yet from him. 


O: I didn’t think he’s made it Base Ops yet. 


O: Well, I wanted this captain down here at to see it before we went o r something. I can’t 


make out any red lights anymore. . .(two voices talking at once). One is still definitely flickering. 
Well, they’re all still flickering buy they are so far away now I can’t make out the red light. It 
was like there was just a small red light on the bottom of it like an obstruction light of some type. 


A: You know, we have a lot of traffic. Well, not a lot of traffic, but we have some traffic moving 
in that area now. I was wondering maybe if they might have gotten up out of the way or 
something. This whole thing is nice, isn’t it? 


A: Yeah, it was (slurred). 


O: This is Captain Clark back on again. 


O: Yes, Captain Clark! What did you find out out there? 


CC: On that bright star now, lets see if I have the right one, coming down and to the right slightly 
you find three that are kind of a “V.” 


O: That’s the ones you’re looking at? 


A: Yes sir. 


CC: And then I see on eon the bottom bar of that V, the V kind of aims up to the right. 




81 






A: The three to the south. . .they seem to be. . . One of them will blink and then it will be the other 
one and then another one. 


A: Well, now. I have observed it now for an hour and 50 minutes. 


O: Yeah. 


A: Almost two hours now. And in that time it has gained altitude twice and moved what would 
appear to be five or six miles to the west. 


O: Uh-huh. 


O: (another) Does anybody have the winds over there? 


A: Yes, sire, I have it here in the tower. It’s presently calm. No more than 2 knots and they are 
easterly winds. And these things are moving westerly. 


O: Oh, hold it. I’ve got a report here from Lans. My airman says he’s got one maneuvering 
there. He’s taking my binoculars up now and taking a look. 


O: Okay, sir. Here’s height coverage from the site. Okay, . Major Strubble break 


through. The rest of you people on the line if you want to hear the Major speak. 


A: The height people are on now. 


H: Okay. The target has moved 3 miles to Zero Nine One. It’s moved form Zero Three Zero 


degrees at 80 miles to Zero Sic Zero at 30, at uh 50 on the site. 


O: Which site? 


H: From San Pedro 


O: Alpha Zero has a contact, he says about 15 right or 20. 


A: Two Two Zero? 


O: Right. 


O: Alpha. Do we got any flights down there anywhere now? 


A: No sir, we don’t. We’re gonna’ let them fly. 


Pedro: 345. Range about 80. 


H: Okay. That’s Interceptor. 


A: They’re gonna’ swing him Zero Nine Zero again shortly here. Right over tower. Okay, turn it 
starboard Zero Nine Zero. 


H: Pedro? 


Pedro: Man, are you getting any data off these objects now? 


H: Pedro, hi. 


Pedro: This is Pedro. How are ya’ doing? 


H: Right Kind your Number One into manual and follow the Interceptor and I’ll tell you when to 
chase ahead of it. 


A: Alright, I have Alpha Lima in sight now. 


A: Yeah, he says he’s got contact. 12 o’clock 16. 


A: That’s it. 


H: Olay Pedro. Turn your height finder 7 degrees ahead of him. Turn your height finder 7 
degrees ahead of that - ahead of that Interceptor. 


O: That should be a contact. 


H: Hey, tower? 


A: Yes? 


H: How’s he looking now? Is he headed toward anything? 


A: Pretty good. He looks good. 




82 






H: Are the blips merging. . . I mean, uh . . . 


A: Yes, he’s converging on him. 


H: Okay, keep going. . .keep going ahead. Go as far as 25 to 15 degrees ahead of the target. 


O: Hey Tower 


A: They are converging. He seems to be maybe just a little bit south of it. Left turn, left turn. 
Low left turn. He’s low and left. That thing is rising. 


H: Tower, how’s things look now? 


A: He’s low! Search high - search high. Search very high, the thing is rising. It’s rising rapidly. 
O: It looks like its right above him from the Tower now. 


A: It looks almost directly above him and rising. 


H: Okay. Pedro, come back. Come back to the ‘Ceptor 


A: But I have the object in sight. It’s much higher than it was, though. 


H: Okay. Alpha Lima’s gonna’ climb to 40,000. 


A: Okay. 


H: Olay, Pedro. Turn your height finder to Zero Three Zero degrees. 


A: Have Alpha Lima show a landing light. 


O: Mark that spot, Sherm. We lost the possible contact on search radar again. 


A: What altitude? 


H: Okay. Zero One now should be Zero Six Zero for 20. 


H: I’ve got a possible contact on search radar bearing from your station Zero Seven Five for 10. 
Pedro: Zero Seven Five at 10? 


H: Roger. Anything out there? 


Pedro: I have one at Zero Seven Five, could 


H: Rog. 


Pedro: And high. He’s in our blanked out area now. 


H: Which height finder? 


[Several speaking at once] 


O: Lans, this is Tower 
H. Rog. 


O: This is Captain Clark. Do you have any height on these things over here to the east of 
Edwards? 


H: Negative. Unable to get them on height finder. We’re trying to mark them now with the 
Interceptor passes under them 
CC: Right. 


H: Or in the vicinity of them. And we are unable to get them on the height finer at the present 
time. If you give me an approximate time that he does pass under this, I got the surveillance man 
at the site standing by to mark this position. I’ll have both height finders search that area. 


H: Luminous object 12 o’clock? 


A: Should be 12 o’clock. 


?: (calls out) Luminous object 12 o’clock. 


A: Have him turn port another 10 degrees. Port Zero Six Zero. 


H: Zero Six Zero now. 


A: He’ll be passing to the right of it. 


H: Have you got anything else in sight? 




83 






A: No sir, just those two that we tried on there. And he appeared from the Tower to pass way 
beneath it. 


H: Edwards? 


A: Yes sir? 


H: Is there one about southeast of you? About 3 miles at this time. 


A: He’s at 3? 


H: Right. Yes, southeast much closer. We’ve got a possible contact there on something. 


A: Just a moment, I see something, let me throw my glasses on it. 


H. One Two Zero. 


A: Let me throw m glasses on it. 


[Background] 


H: Pedro, what’s the ground speed on that target you got? 


Pedro: That I just gave you? 


H: Right. 


Pedro: I don’t know, I scanned him twice and now he’s gone. 


H: Painted him twice and he’s gone. That’s what I was afraid of. Hey, Tower? Hey, Tower? 
Hmm. Sir I hate to be an optimist but that fighter looks like he’s going some place. 


H: I’ve got a possible contact on search there. 


A: He’s about 16,000 feet? 


H: 16,000? 


A: Right. Sir? W.D.? Yo! 


H: Rog. Right. That target at Edward there is 16,000. 


O: You’ve got him on target at 16,000? 


H: Right. 


O: That’s One Six thousand? 


H: Right 16,000. Pedro? Keep your height finder locked on it. And search. Keep an eye on it. 
Pedro: Is that a uniform One Zero Six? 


H: negative. This is an uninitiated tract. It’s uh.. at Edwards. 


Pedro: Roger. I see. We’ll initiate it. 


H: Keep an eye on it. Last time we did, it split. Remember? 


O: You still got prism search? 


H: Tower, come back on the air. Sir. Yes. That target has disappeared off of radar. 


H: He’s coming in head on at it. 


O: Roger. Were you able to establish a track out of that? 


H: Negative, Edwards was able to establish a track... Have you still got it on height finder? Hey 
Tower? 


A: Yes, sir. 


H: Zero One bearing One Two Zero for 10 coming now. 


A: One Two Zero at 10. What altitude? 


H: He’s descending to One Five. 


A: I don’t have it. 


H: Okay. Zero One’s got a visual - a flashing target, low his present position. 


A: He’s got one? 


H. Yes he does. 


A: All right. Zero Zero Eight. He’s in the right place. 


H: Let’s see, he’s orbiting now. Looks like he’s turning starboard directly over ya. 


A: Does he have a 




84 






H: Hey, Edwards? 


A: Yes? 


H: Do you have Zero One now? 


A: Yes, I have him tracked. 


H: Is he still in the vicinity of the target? 


A: I can’t definitely say that that is a target. We saw it. We have what he’s looking at but it 
doesn’t appear to be, ah, flashing from the Tower. I think we have what he’s looking at. We do 
have something out there. I can’t say what it is. 


[Terrible background noise continues] 


A: But that’s not a target, huh? 


A: It doesn’t look like the other ones did. It looks further away. It looks like he’s coming back 
over the field now. He’s heading out west of me now, right? 


H: Say again. 


A: He’s out west of me now, right? 


H: Roger. 


O: Did the Interceptor make any contact with that target Zero One Zero? 


H: He ran right over it. I don’t think - I don’t know if he made contact visual on it or not. 


A: ...it’s stationary... 


H: Is he stationary? 


A: Rog. 16,000? 


H: You still got that bat on the radar? 


Pedro: I still have him on search. . . 


?: Search One Zero Nine and see what you get. 


H: You had him at 16,000 though, right? 


Pedro: Right. He’s stationary, he hasn’t moved but about one degree. He’s still the same. 


H: Okay. Put that height finer on automatic and I want to send a request to it. 


Pedro: Will do. 


A: We’ve got radar contact out here at your One Three Zero position for 12. 


O: Are you running an ETM on it now? 


H: Affirmative 


O: I don’t have a contact on it now . Okay, does Zero One have a visual contact on these 


things? 


A: Yes. 


O: Okay, we’ll cover off Lima Zero One then. 


A: I don’t have another one in sight. 


H: You lost them all, huh? Zero One said he saw some reflections off the ground that appear to 
be flashing. 


A: Reflections off the ground that appear to be flashing? 


H: Right. Off the lakebed. 


A: Huh. I don’t know what hat could be - my beacon? 


H: No, he knows the beacon. Okay, sir, might as well key off and break this line down then. 


FS: I’ll be doggone. 


H: He went through it 15, 25, and 40,000 feet on the visual object and uh, supposedly flew right 
under it according to ground observations, visual observations, and I recorded nothing flying 
underneath it. 


FS: Okay, well thanks very much. It was kind of interesting anyway. 


H: Yeah, it is. We’re as curious as you are. 




85 






FS: Yeah. 


H: Guess we’ll never know. 


FS: Yeah. I guess not. Okay, well thanks for calling. 




86 






Testimony of Mr. Michael W. Smith, US Air Force 


November 2000 




Michael Smith was an Air Traffic Controller with the Air Force in Oregon and, 
subsequently, in Michigan. At both of these facilities he and others witnessed UFOs 
tracked on radar and moving at extraordinary speeds. Fie also confirms that personnel 
were expected to maintain secrecy concerning these observations, and that NORAD, the 
North American Air Defense Command, was fully apprised of these events. In fact, in 
one event in Michigan, NORAD was fully engaged, and steered B-52s returning to base 
around these UFOs. 




My name is Michael W. Smith. I was in the Air Force from 1969 to 1973 and was an 
Aircraft Control and Early Warning Operator, which was basically an Aircraft Control person. 
Our job was to track and give altitudes for military aircraft, and to detect and identify any 
incoming aircraft coming into our airspace. 


In spring of 1970, while I was stationed in Klamath Falls, Oregon. I came up to the radar site 
on the evening shift, and where there [were] normally two or three people in the radar room, there 
[were] quite a few, from the cooks to maintenance — all kinds of people. I asked what was going 
on, and they said that they were watching a UFO on radar. I immediately was stunned and asked 
if the Pentagon [had been] notified or if we [had] called the President. They said no, they don’t 
do that. And I said, well, we should call the news media or, you know, call somebody — this was 
Earth-shaking news to me. And they said, “No, just calm down.” 


NORAD [North American Air Defense Command] knows about it. They had called 
NORAD. The senior NCO pulled me to the side and said that NORAD knows about it — that’s 
the only people we notify. We don’t talk about this. We don’t tell anybody about this. The 
people that know, know. We just watch, see what happens, and that’s it. That’s our job. I 
insisted there has to be a report filed or something filed, you know? And he said that there is a 
report that you can file — it’s about an inch thick, and the first two pages are about the sighting. 
The rest of it is basically a psychological profile of you, your family, your bloodlines, everything. 


When the Air Force goes through it, they can discredit you completely by either saying that 
[you were] on drugs, or your mother was a communist, or anything to discredit you. You’d never 
get a promotion, and [you’d] spend the next three and one-half years up at the North Pole, living 
in a tent, checking the weather balloons. You know — no hope for promotion. So, the message 
was pretty loud and clear: you just shut-up and don’t say anything to anybody. 


This UFO was stationary, wasn’t moving at all. Then it would slowly lower itself down until 
it got behind a mountain so that you lost radar contact. It would stay down for about 1 5 minutes, 
and the next thing you knew, it was right back up there at 80,000 [or] 90,000 feet. Then, [in] the 
next sweep of the radarscope, it would be 200 miles away, stationary — completely stopped. It 
would hover there for 5 [or] 10 minutes, and then slowly start descending until it dropped off 
radar. Then it would come back up. It did this three times, that I saw. 


This happened one more time that I know of. I heard that it’s not an infrequent occurrence 
out there. They have them quite often, but I’ve personally seen it twice. 




87 






There’s no aircraft that can accelerate and decelerate that fast without having the pilot’s face 
go through the windshield. I mean it is impossible to operate that way with gravity... So, it was 
obviously something we didn’t have. We never scrambled interceptors on them, so it was 
obviously something the Russians never had. It was a UFO. That’s the only explanation there 
was for it. NORAD knew about it and they just handled it like it’s just a UFO — watch it and see 
what happens. Don’t take any actions, don’t tell anybody, don’t write it down, and don’t disclose 
it. 




NORAD is in charge of all of the air space of the United States and North America. It’s their 
job to identify any incoming aircraft, any threats — Russian planes or any aircraft at all. The first 
thing they do is check it with the flight plans of airlines or private carriers or whatever. 
Everything is identified, so when something like this just pops up on the scope with no flight plan 
and doing erratic behaviors, it’s their job to identify it. They have a tie-in with all the radar 
stations in North America. It all goes to Cheyenne Mountain, CO [NORAD HQ]. They have a 
big screen and they can see any area of the country at any time. 


Another experience I had happened on third shift. I was on the radar, and NORAD called me 
and informed me that there was a UFO coming up the California coast and it would be in my area 
pretty soon. 


I said what do you want me to do? And they said, “Nothing, just watch it, don’t write it 
down.” We have a log book in which we are supposed to keep track of anything out of the 
ordinary. But they said, “Don’t log it or anything, just watch it. We are just letting you know — 
heads up.” NORAD was well aware, obviously, that these UFOs were around, and the action of 
the people when I first saw the UFO on radar was as if it happens quite often. 


The first time you see a UFO on radar you realize the Government knows about this, so why 
aren’t they telling the press? 


But when I was pulled to the side, it was explained that, yes, there are UFOs. Yes, we know 
[about] them. Yes, NORAD knows about them. But that’s it. This is a secret. You are not 
supposed to talk about it. Don’t tell anybody about it. Don’t make any reports. Don’t write it 
down. Just shut-up and you’ll get your next stripe, and you’ll be promoted, and we’ll go on from 
there. 


Another encounter happened while I was stationed in Michigan. It was in 1972 — I believe it 
was in the fall of 1972. I was working alone that night. By then I was promoted to a Sergeant. I 
got a phone call from the switchboard operator, and he said he had the State Police on the phone 
and they wanted to talk to me. He was real frantic when he got on the phone, and said that there 
[were] three UFOs over the north tower of the Mackinac Bridge. Mackinac Bridge connects the 
upper peninsula and the lower peninsula of Michigan. 


I immediately turned on the radar, but my immediate reply to the officer was [that] they are 
not on radar, and I hung up the phone. It’s just something that’s programmed into you — that’s 
what you are supposed to say, “There’s nothing on radar”, even if you see something. But 
actually, the north tower seemed to be a little bit bigger, and then I realized that they were the 
UFOs. One took off, left the other two, circled Mackinac Island and came back to the other 
[two]. Then all three started going along Interstate 75, north from St. Ignace. 


In the meantime, I got calls from the Sheriffs Department. They were frantic, saying, “We 
are chasing these UFOs up the highway.” My response was, there’s nothing on radar. Several 






people called — several civilians. 1 believe there was a newspaper person that called. In the 
meantime, I called NORAD and told them. They looked it up and they said, “Oh, they are going 
up 1-75?” I said yes, at about 70-80 miles an hour. 


Now, about halfway between St. Ignace and [unintelligible], there is Kincheloe Air Force 
Base, which is a SAC base [closed in 1977]. They have B-52 bombers. They had two that were 
on final approach, and that crosses 1-75. Apparently, they diverted those two bombers because 
they didn’t want — [whether] they have nuclear weapons or not — to take a chance on them 
meeting UFOs about the same altitude, crossing the highway. So they diverted the two B-52s. 


As the UFOs came closer, I realized that they were coming this way — following the 
highway right by my radar site, which is up on top of a hill. 


Then I saw a bright bluish glow go by silently, followed by the flashing red and blue lights of 
the police cars that were chasing them. 


If I had said, oh, yes, I have them on radar, then the next thing I know, newspapers are going 
to be up there wanting to talk to me and I’d probably get courtmartialed... It was just instinct, 
saying there’s nothing on radar when there actually was. I was watching them come up the 
highway. They were so close together, they looked like one return. In other words, it looked like 
it was one aircraft and it was very low. 


It doesn’t matter if he’s wearing a badge or not — you don’t talk about it. In the log book, [I] 
wrote this down, and I told my Senior NCO the next day about it — but that’s all you are 
supposed to do. Don’t tell anybody else. Don’t write it down, although I did write it down. But, 
I doubt you’ll ever find that log book. 


The government, they cover up. They don’t want anybody talking about it. But this is such 
remarkable technology. These people come from who knows where. I would think you’d want 
everybody to know. . . 


On a personal note, after the first event happened in Oregon, I came home on leave and told 
my Dad about it. He was red, white, and blue through and through— an old WWII hero and all 
that, and very patriotic. I was explaining to him about these UFOs that we routinely see out there, 
and he said, “No, the Government says that there are no UFOs.” I’m saying, Dad, I’ve seen these 
on radar with my own eyes. And he says, come on, the Government would never lie to him. You 
know? But here’s his son; I would never lie to him. 


So, he just didn’t know what to do. It wasn’t until years later, until after Watergate, that he 
said, “Hey, sit down and tell me about this. The Government is lying to me about a little thing 
like Watergate, so obviously they are out lying about something big.” 


It’s a Government cover-up that doesn’t need to be here any more. There is no more Cold 
War. I believe the same thing Dr. Greer does, that the technology they have could enable us to 
stop burning our fossil fuels and stop the damage to the ozone, etc. These people have 
technologies — they must have something. And the Government knows about it. They have 
these aliens, they have these spacecraft, they have this technology, all this. There’s a lot of back- 
engineered technology, that’s pretty obvious. Who are they to cover this up when other 
Governments are coming forward, admitting, and showing their files — why isn’t our 
Government? 




89 






While I was in the Air Force, there were a number of other people that had witnessed UFOs 
on radar, also. A number of pilots Fve talked to had chased them or come close to them or flown 
in formation with them. For example, a friend of mine was in a tower and there was a flight of 
three interceptors coming in. And he said, “No, there’s four of them.” And the Captain is going, 
“No, there’s three of us.” And he said, “Well, look around.” Sure enough, there was a UFO 
flying in formation with them. 


When Dr. Greer brought us down to Washington, D.C. for the Congressional briefing [in 
April 1997], I was very nervous. I didn’t know what to expect. Flowever, there were about 12 
other people there that really amazed me. My story is very tame compared to what they’ve 
experienced and what they’ve encountered. It was a real eye-opener, how deep this secrecy goes, 
how deep the cover-up is — everyone from astronauts to senators who know that there’s 
something going on. 




Testimony of Commander Graham Bethune, US Navy (retired) 


November 2000 


Cmdr. Graham Bethune is a retired Navy commander pilot with a top-secret clearance. 


He was a VIP Plane Commander who flew most of the high-ranking officers and 
civilians from Washington D.C. In his testimony he explains how he was flying a 
group of VIP’s and other pilots into Argentia, Newfoundland when they all witnessed a 
300 foot UFO that traveled 10,000 feet straight up in a fraction of a second toward their 
plane and was on radar. He has documented the event extensively. A selection of those 
documents follow this testimony. 


GB: Cmdr. Graham Bethune SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


[Note that this case is also described in section 6.5. It occurred on Feb. 10, 1951. SG] 


GB: My name is Graham Bethune. I am a commander, retired pilot from the Navy and I 
went through the regular Navy program of training pilots. I graduated in 1943 from Pensacola, 
the Academy Air. And of course all Navy pilots are trained navigators, which is very important 
when you are going to talk about what we’re going to discuss here, because we had to know all of 
the star systems and we had to know these types of things. I navigated maybe 1 3 years around 
the planet with the stars. And when I first graduated from Pensacola in 1943 I went to the South 
Atlantic and we were hunting German submarines. This was all night flying. Everything we did 
was at night in patrol planes. 


I was transferred to Air Transport Squadron One in 1950. I was sent to Keflavik, Iceland, 
along with two other officers after a meeting that they had in Washington, D.C., where Iceland 
was involved in seeing UFOs over Keflavik, Iceland, and they wanted troops up there to protect 
them. 


During our meeting they were explaining to us why they had requested the troops and what 
they were seeing. And we asked them if they could really go into more detail about the type of 
craft that they were seeing. And their explanation was that they were seeing most of them at 
night — lighted craft, circular. And we knew coming from a naval air test center, we tested 
everything there, that we had nothing like that that we had tested. 




90 






So I asked them, well, what did our government tell you that they were? And they said, 
you’re government said they were experimental, probably experimental Russian bombers 
(laughter). 


The flight was normally about ten hours. But this particular night we had a 16-knot head 
wind. And about maybe 300 to 400 miles outside of Argentia, Newfoundland I saw something 
below the horizon, on the water, that looked like approaching a city at night. It was just kind of 
an ambient light, no definition whatsoever. But it looked like the same thing that you would see 
if you were approaching a large city at night. So I watched it for a while. It was about 1:00 am. 


And then finally I called Kinden’s attention to it, who was sitting in the right seat. He was 
route checking me. And he took a look at it and he didn’t know what it was. We couldn’t figure 
out ... there was nothing out there. We had passed over the guard ship already. In those days, 
they had a guard ship that was between Iceland and between Newfoundland. The guard ship had 
given us the latest weather. The weather was clear. There was no Northern Light activity, which 
they give as part of the weather report. And we had ship plots. There were no ships plotted in 
that area. So we asked control if he could give us another fix and find out if we were really on 
course. We thought maybe we had drifted, that we were seeing Labrador or maybe the tip of 
Greenland. So he said, no, we were right on course. 


So we watched it for a while and we were drifting to the right of it. Our heading was 222 
degrees, 225 degrees. We were at 10,000 feet, I would say it was 40 miles away originally. 
When we were about 25 or 30 miles away we could see defined lights and there was a pattern on 
the water. So, with that pattern we couldn’t figure out what was going on. Maybe the Navy was 
doing something that was highly classified, recovering something down in the ocean or 
something of this nature, we thought. And it was a circular pattern. And it was very large. 


So I sent the crew chief back to get the other plane commander, A1 Jones, because they 
wanted to land at Argentia. There were 3 1 passengers and we had two VIP crews that had pilots 
also, and patrol plane pilots. And at the time that they came forward, the lights went out on the 
water. There was nothing on the water. This was about 15 miles away. I mean it was just dark. 


Now standing behind me was the navigator, the radioman, and also the plane captain - the 
cockpit was full. All of a sudden we saw, on the water, a yellow halo that was very, very small, 
about 15 miles away. And it came up to 10,000 feet like that - a fraction of a second. 


[Note the similarity of movement of this UFO with other accounts: It covered 15 miles in a 
second or so. SGJ 


And I thought that it was going to go right through us. So I disengaged the autopilot, pushed 
the nose over, because I was going to go under it at the angle that it was coming toward me. 


So what happened, the minute that I did that, it was up at our altitude and I could see nothing 
outside of the cockpit but this craft. And so I didn’t know which way to go. And then all of a 
sudden I heard a racket. I didn’t know what it was. And I said, Fred, what the hell was that? He 
looked around and he said, everyone was ducking in the back of us and they collided and they are 
all lying on the deck back there, scrambling on the deck. So when I looked back it wasn’t there. 
And he said, it’s over here on the right hand side. Now it was about a mile or so away. It kind of 
drifted forward, maybe to a position five miles away, and that’s where it stayed with us for quite 
some time. 




91 






This is when we could first see it wasn’t above our altitude. It was below our altitude. But it 
was still above the horizon where you could see the side of the craft. You could see the dome and 
you could see the color around the perimeter of the craft. 


And then we knew that it was a friendly encounter. We knew that it knew that we were there. 
We knew that it came out to see us. But we didn’t think at that time that the reason that it did this 
was because they wanted to show us what the Icelanders were talking about. 


So we watched it for a while. And A1 says, well, let him get in the seat. So I let him get in 
the seat and he disengaged the autopilot and was going to chase it. Now we had a head wind of 
about 60-knots, so our ground speed was only maybe 120, 130-knots. And so he wasn’t going to 
go too far in chasing this thing. But he did turn to chase it. 


So I decided that I would go back to see how the passengers reacted and also talk to the 
doctor who was back there. And so I went to him first, I said. Doc, did you see what we saw? 
And he said, yeah, he looked me straight in the eye and said, yeah, it was a flying saucer. He 
says, I didn’t look at it because I don’t believe in such things. Well, it took me a couple of 
seconds to realize what he was saying. He couldn’t believe, being a psychiatrist, in that kind of 
thing. So I went back forward and I said, Al, whatever you do don’t tell anybody we saw 
anything, they will lock us up as soon as we get on the ground. He says, it’s too late. I just called 
Gander control, to see if they could track this by radar. So that’s how the story got out. 


So when we landed at Argentia, the Air Force was there and they interrogated us. And the 
captain that did the interrogation did a real good job. But you could tell this wasn’t his first time 
that he had ever interrogated anybody as far as this type of encounter was concerned. He made a 
good report, which went to the headquarters of the Air Force in Washington, D.C. 


Initially the color was yellow. Since then I’ve learned from the boys upstairs why we saw 
different colors as it was coming toward us. The colors were around the perimeter. And it turned 
from a yellow to an orange to almost a fiery red and then almost a purplish red. And they said 
that that had to do with the amount of energy being used or dissipated. It had to do with the 
power so to speak. And so when it slowed down, close to us, in a fraction of a second, it was 
back to the yellow range. And it was foggy around it to where it was like a plasma mist or 
something of this nature. 


When we were asked about the crafts size 300 feet came to my mind. And when I got the 
report out of the Archives in 1991 I had never seen anybody else’s report, everyone said it was 
anywhere from 250 to 350 feet in diameter. And when I talked to the others they said it was just 
something that they knew and estimated. Now the velocity when it left us was estimated from 
between 1,000 miles an hour to 2,000 miles an hour. And when I looked at the report, Al Jones 
had estimated 1,800 miles an hour. Mine was 1,000. Another was 1,500 miles, but in that range. 
It turns out that the radar report, which I have never seen said it was 1,800 miles an hour 


We had nothing that would go that fast. And of course I was at the naval air test center. This 
is where we had our test pilot training school. This is where we did all the highly classified tests 
of aircraft. And to my knowledge we had nothing anywhere near that speed or anything that was 
circular. 




92 






Now this craft went 15 miles in that short period of time (one second or so). Now you could 
calculate how fast it came toward us. And then just like put the brakes on in front of us. You 
take something 300 feet in diameter, and you don’t see much out of your cockpit window. 


I’ve been corresponding with a magnetic engineer for several years that’s writing a book. 
He’s already gotten pretty close to 100 pilot reports (of UFOs with magnetic effects on the 
aircraft). And I gave him, in detail, everything that happened. 


When I went to set the automatic pilot back, the magnetic compass, which was in the center 
of the panel, was swinging back and forth. I said to Fred, I said, did you see that? He said, you 
should have seen it when the craft was close. He said it was spinning. And so then we looked at 
the other compasses. At that time the craft was sitting out maybe five miles from us. We had 
what we called Bird Dogs. They are low frequency radio components that will point to the 
station when you tune in the station. These two Bird Dogs were pointing toward the craft. We 
had two other compasses. We had a remote compass, which is out in the wing; it was reacting. 
There were a total of five different directional gyros in that airplane. And out of the five, three of 
them were acting up. 


1 was told that it was tracked by radar. He said, as far as he knew the radar report was sent in 
to the Air Force Headquarters in Washington, D.C. It usually goes from there to Wright 
Patterson AFB. But my boss found the report in the Archives in Wright Patterson in Project Blue 
Book after talking to Colonel Watson, and he confirmed the speed of 1,800 miles. I said where 
did you find that out? He said, well, it was a radar report and it said that. So something happened 
to the radar report before they microfilmed it. Because what I have on microfilm I got from the 
Archives (and the radar report is missing). I was told by a friend of mine at Wright Patterson 
AFB that I’ve known for years that they had allowed Steven Spielberg microfilm this, the Blue 
Book records or whatever for Close Encounters of the Third Kind. So he (Spielberg) had a pretty 
high clearance. He had to be associated with some of the . . . well, you know who, as far as the 
control group is concerned. 


The other plane commander I located many years ago but he was with this company and he 
wouldn’t talk. After he retired, I got a hold of him again in 1996 and I flew out to where he lived 
and I said, what we will do is we’ll just take a tape recorder and we’ll just discuss it. So that’s 
what happened. In the report that I wrote, his statement is in there, several pages of his statement. 
His schematic of what he saw is in there. And it was amazing how they matched. 


[We have this full report with the other pilot ’s corroboration of events. SGJ 


The document that I found [See Government Documents] was the official document that the 
Air Force had put together. And it was originally filed under Project Grudge. 


[Refer to the testimony of AF Colonel Charles Brown who was part of Project Grudge. SGJ 


But on the front page it says Project Twinkle where they put a lot of reports that they had to 
get rid of somehow. 


[Note that Colonel Brown confirms in his testimony that really sensitive cases were placed in 
another project outside of Grudge and beyond his access. SGJ 


There were 18 pages according to the Archives. But they only at that time, Admiral 
McCormick, who had relieved Eisenhower, was the NATO Commander, the Supreme Allied 




93 






Commander. Now his aides had approached me. Everybody seemed to know about this event. 
Like Admiral Radford, who became the first Joint Chiefs of Staff, his aides knew about it because 
he had talked to me about it. So there were quite a few who knew about this. So this was how I 
learned a lot that really was not official and was really not in any books. 


[Note that Colonel Corso and others relate that the very sensitive material was conveyed 
verbally, “brain to brain. ” SGJ 


Later in May, I had an Intelligence officer come to the house. And he showed me pictures. 
The first pictures that I had ever seen. There was nothing, absolutely nothing there that looked 
close to it. There was one that was 100 feet in diameter. It didn’t look like it was damaged too 
much. 


[He implies here that these were photos of retrieved or crashed objects since he can comment 
on the extent of damage. SGJ 


So he’s the one that I asked a lot of questions. I said what happens to this report. And he told me 
exactly what happens. He says there is a committee. Now these are his words: “There is a joint 
intelligence committee. . .” And he said, “. . . and they make the decisions as to where it goes.” 


They were coming to me a lot of times and showing me photographs. A lot of them looked 
like what we would call foo fighters. A lot of them looked like just a round, bright disc of some 
kind. 


There was a Secretary of the Navy Kimball ... I was what you would call a VIP Plane 
Commander in the flag Division, which flew most of the high-ranking officers and civilians out 
of Washington, D.C. Several of these officials told me what they had seen. Lor example, there 
were two craft flying together out in the Pacific. And a bright disc came up beside one of them 
and stayed with them for a while and flew around it. 


Our office came under the headquarters of Wright Patterson. It was a central district. You 
had pilot meetings. You had all these types of meetings. And I would go down there about once 
or twice a month to the meetings, plus I would go maybe two or three times a year for seminars 
... it would be a week or so. 


Once, while on the flight line where we parked our plane we weren’t too far from what 
looked like a hanger. It looked like a corrugated metal hanger. And it was open most of the time. 
Every time my boss and I would go by there he couldn’t understand why I was not interested in 
going and looking at what was behind the metal wall back there. And he told me basically that 
they had a craft (UFO) back there. And he told me basically that they did have ET bodies there. 
Now he’s not the first one that ever told me that. 


From discussions that he had had with Admiral Forney he learned that Admiral Forney (who 
was our missile chief and had spent time at White Sands) was convinced that craft from other 
planets were visiting us. He kept bringing up Colonel Watson also. He said Colonel Watson let 
him look at a lot of these files, plus he was the one that told him about what they had there. He 
saw what they had there [the ET craft and bodies], and as I said he couldn’t understand why I 
wasn’t interested. I said, well, really I don’t have any interest because I will never be able to talk 
about it. And I know enough now from what I’ve seen that I know they exist. It was a craft at 
Wright Patterson AFB. It was a craft that did crash somewhere. 


SG: Extraterrestrial? 




94 






GB: Extraterrestrial craft, exactly. Yes. And the bodies that he was talking about were 
extraterrestrial. 


Well, I’m convinced of what I saw. To my knowledge we wouldn’t have had anything of that 
size. And I’m certain that it was from another planet, not from this planet. Our technology was 
not such at that time that we could have any kind of a craft like that, I’m sure of that. 


I had a top-secret clearance. But here we get back to the need to know. And I am sure that in 
a lot of cases the other people had the need to know about certain things that I didn’t have. And 
so I’m sure that if we had anything from another planet, that some of these engineers would be 
involved, whether they were magnetic engineers or aeronautical engineers or whatever they were, 
they would be involved. 


Regarding Corso’s book, I was involved in some things that I’m suspicious were of the same 
nature. They were asking us to see if we could find a contractor in the area that could build 
something like this, to back-engineer something like this. And we never thought about it when he 
said, well, it wasn’t our technology. 


Later in the ‘60s, we were just moving into a new home. My son was about eight years old. 
And we were sodding the backyard. And I went into the house to wash up and he came into the 
house and says, dad, mommy wants you outside. I said, what for? He said, we’re looking at 
flying saucers. Well, I thought to myself what the heck does he know about flying saucers? So I 
go outside and here she is standing and pointing to something up above us. And you know what 
it was? It was a ship and there were smaller craft all around it. So I go back in the house to get 
the binoculars because I wanted to get a good look at this. So I come back and the ship itself had 
gone but I got a chance to see two or three of the small ones. So when we got back in the house I 
said to my wife, how did you find out about flying saucers? Because we were not supposed to 
tell even our wives of our encounter, which was in 1 95 1 . 




95 






OVSO I JUNE 193 




; • AIR .1N7ELLISENCF INFORMATO^EPG^RT 




Dlr/lnt, Hq NEAC 




; The follo^ing described unidentified aircraft/objact waa sighted off the 


ooaat of Newfoundland by HATS Navy C-54 crew ■ 1 Cft 


• Ri SO * 


a \ °rj e f“ a i ly sd 6h tod a » a single, heavy, yellowish light,- similar in 
pp araaca to that of a city. Ad object approached observing aircraft, it grow 
7! r T.^ rlEht o ad lar S°» aod appeared to ba somi-oiroular in shaoe. Noah aircraft 
it did al80° turn and was last seen as a snail ball dl Sapp *..-££ overt^orHin. 
Ihe speed was terrific and the size "tremendous" to quota observers. (The dif- 
ference in size between the tine it was first seen and last seen as a small; ball • 


going over t-.e horizon was described trsnendous, at least 100 tines larger. f 


-Sighted- at 00552 on 10 February 1951 anc reaained -visible for aoprcxiV 
nately 7 or 8 minutes. I \ ' 


v, „ ' I asoTs^oi . >• 


o. Visually observed from MATS Navy C-54 i^SOl of VH-V Squadron based at 
Patuxent, Maryland, flying at 10.G00 feet altitude, 172 knots air speed, 225° true 
course* . 


d. Observing airdraft wqs at 49° 50 • N 50° 30> ff at the tine of observe- . 
-tion. Object appeared ne«r the water's surface at approximately a 45° downward 
angle from the obsarvingVaifcraft a5d ‘was^ikihg godi- a--true--oouree of aporoximately 
12S o . Upon approaching Observing aircraft, it executed a sudden i — .j~ . 


190 and disappeared very rapidly over the horizon. 


e. Object sighted by 5 jcrow senbehs, listed below, of the above aircraft, 


who are all experience d K ortfr. Atlantic fli ors. Gander Traffio Control reports no 
other aircraft known to bo“iu lii'eViCimzy -at time of sighting. All 5 observers 
agree on facts as stated, but tnere ha3 been no confimatioh from other sourcos. 
Believe C-3 appropriate. • ^ „ - — 


Lt Fred Tf. Xiagdan -, 1.73390/ (first to se e tb jectl_ J ' 


-T— • Lt. A. L. Jonss - 391093 > _=»" — 


Lt 0. S. Be than e - 2*93055 . • 


Lt N. 0. B. Xoger - 1305873 


. . Lt. J. M. Meyer - 263836 


f. . "ieather clear, visibility from 15 mi-les to unlimited, no other weather 


info rma t ion" availa bl e . * . • ’ 


■ g. No unusual meteorological activity known to exist and bavins Any in- | 


fluenoe on the sighting. This objoot oould not have been a comet as the object I 
was below end between the aircraft and ocean.— / 


fi. No physical evidencej available. 


1. No interception actiion taken. 


2. The above information was forwarded from this Headquartors to Hnadcuarters , 
CSfi? by - 10 February 1951 by I'.’K Ji:. XEi'C E ! OllX an i 3J 0213. ’ ; 






Am force_ 








9 \ 




a 




'•'■ :~ .1- ’ u " * ’"' — “ 


-ii&swr'.r amrafflyVi-ifTTwAi '«—.<>< _*■ „_« a„ _ . . 




1S51 




Command - 


^S M W BK g^^r-^ytlto?fatter30g Air Tore* Base 




Ohlo N — ' 




itelllgeiics Department 




: "i:-"rMzh. V;‘-»’ : -t'-.* », Se fera ago 1 b made to radnote, this headquarters, date tine 
.••i * P S T ® 1^95S»I?^®«Kilne tMldeatified Hying object Hinting on 


— She inclosed statements were obtained unon lnterro- 


• >■ / Vi ; / ; -'* a *!' flai -° r ■ ; th®-Jfcna personnel maViT, g this sighting. 


'•- . • • .... 




information. 
TTT7T7 03* STA^Fj 




v $&*£?'■ • '[■ £ W i . 


* JVV '- ' ■ 






' '■ ■ 1.. Statement fr-iil Xlngdoa 


'-2* Statement- fr 1TJG. Jq'nes 
• ?* Statement fr LT Soger 
.’ 4ys Statanent- f r II 3 ethane 
r-: . iij 1&;'7 — **- Meter 


■ t' -.-VifSai!- .4 «T ft wv i — ' ' - 




L2S333 S. HARRIS .. 


Colonel. USA? 


-bi , , ijr-shnlcal capabilities Branch 


^ r <u.^ iiicc Li.7i.slaa 


Sirs.etorate oi Tnain.^ .. 




"",A-.jS}ii ’ -si - ' '"^ .'•’ i.V'S-" . ■* — • 




ol 








i.C” «•-•• 'V 




DOWNGRADED AT S YEAR INTERVALS 
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS. 




SI 




w 




« * V . 


If ** • T 










mm- jj rodgers. mciaxa-i a r 


Ip COL HARRIS AFQIN-V/TC-- 


j REFERENCE RECENT RADNOTE -MESSAGES FROM 


i TOUR HEADQUARTERS CONCERNING SIGHTING OF 
! UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT "IN THE VICINITY 
OF .-NEWFOUNDLAND BY NAV^x AIRCREW. BASED 
r UPON .THE INFORMATION PRESENTED, IT IS 


IMPOSSIBLE TO COME TO DEFINITE CONCLUSIONS 




gu? jzyjrygty ' 5_/ -1 




. .regarding the sighting,, however, the matter ' _ 


1 WAS DISCUSSED IN SOME DETAIL-WITH AN ASTRONOMER fTc/hszrxJT''^ 


• ATTACHrn Tfi. THF ainr fTPAntiATr rruirn 45? & ' ' 


\UF0RMAT10N 




ATTACHED: TO' THE AMC GRADUATE CENTER AS A 
RESULT OF THIS DISCUSSION IT WAS CONCLUDED 
1HAT WHILE THERE IS A POSSIBILITY OF 




1. 




- THE- OBJECT SIGHTED BEING A MSTEOR OR 
\ FIREBALL, THE DESCRIPTION FURNISHED GIVES 
NrEASON TO BELIEVE THAT THE AIRCREW SAW 
: ML UNUSUAL "JJORTHERfTClGHTS^DTSpLAT.' NO 
FURTHER ACTION IS CONTEMPLATED ON THIS 
INCIDENT UNLES S ADDIT IONAL INFORMATION 
■ IS RECEIVED WHICH WOULD TEND TO CHANGE 
_ -OUR ESTIMATE OF THE SITUATION. 


END\ ITEM 4AMC ' 


TO'CGAMC WP AFBOHIO- 


/ 




DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVAL* 
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS. 
DOD DIR 5200.10 




INTERVALS: 


D— '2 YEARS. 


X)„Oi4 l/4Ak ULvU.iO 




0/5 '£< 5-303 


r 




L 


% 




AF GRNC 


33j?CO^SlH!ED I 


ru 7 RAD^'cTE FOR MCISXD FP.Ori AFOIK-C/DD- 1 3/CAPT 0ST3EM 




THE FOLLOWING CABLE- IS QUCjTED FOR YOUR INFORMATION: "VR-i PILOTS OFF 




'-LIGHT N-1.25 ENROUTE KETLAVjIK TO' ARGENT I A OK COURSE 225 TRUE 
AT 10,0-23 FEET REPORTED AN L'MID^IfEED RED AND YELLOW 03JECT AT 
|— I3B255Z INITIALLY BEARING OBJECT APPEARED TO BE CLOSE 


TO S URF A C£^ "SHAPE INDEFINI Til/ W KEN FISST/ A 4^ r S 0 LATER APPEARING 
CIRCULAR. DIAMETER ESTIMATEEEESS kQQ/~J - 


PLANE-'T'URNED AND DISAPPEA^Ei/^VR^KOP.ITaJ: CM COURSE 2SS TRUE AT 




to-'l 
* * 




TREMENDOUS SPEED. 103355Z 1 PCS'Vri 






OBJECT APPROACHED 




LATITUDE 49-52 NORTH LONG 




WEST.. SIGHTING REPORTED TCV GANGER ATC PLAIN LANGUAGE.' 




12/21522 




98 




98 






1 






. NR : OT 0212 j 




Vi •' "••• , ' - ■ j MSI 


•; ■' " ■ BjHdentlfied object seen at 0055Z !1 0 Fe t/ decrr-..,., <;o n^n nnrth, 


’ 50— 3a grecs 03 Bln nest by crew of N’avy 65 - Ol, VR1, Petuxent River, Hd! 


Originally seen as heavy light in distance on the surface as lights of 
city. The^vellowish light, like a fire in col^r, aporoached rapidly 


and grew rah y bright-and very large with a sefc-eirciilar shape. It was. 


on a true c<5urae~of~ about 125 degrees, plane on a true course of 225 
degrees, as it aproached the plane. it suddenly turned about almost 180 
, degrees and disappeared rapidly over the horizon as a small ball.. Speed 


•"was terrific". Seen fr an angle of about 45 degrees looking down fr 
.the plane. Crew 1 all experienced North-Atlantic fliers Lt F.TT. Kingdon, 
Lt. A. L. Jones, |Lt. G.E. Bethune, Lt. N.G.P. Roger, Lt. J.H. Meyer, all 
saw object over a period of fr seven to eight min.' Plane flying at 
... -jq^Qgg altitude. : — . 


. . ACTION: • OIH i 


CAF IN: 9753? 




(10 Feb 51) 




MEL/rof 






99 






• FLEET . .LOGISTIC AIH WHIG, ATLAHTIC/C0NTI1JENT1L 
- AIH TRANSPORT SQDADKDH "38S f .■ " 1 1 
' P. S. RATAL. AIH' STATION . : 




' PATHKHTT RIVER,. HAHTUlKP" . 




10 February 1951 




rr '■'■•■•-yh -a ■ 
“ii- 




M w^w;^e cBroT'fl<ng |nwi^'»-> r ; J't- Transport Squadron ONE -- 


: port or^to^I? Sighting: 'on Plight 125/9 February 1951 i " . •' • 


. "A’ < rT , ,i ' '' ' Tyl j t.-l 




Air ■ Station /ilrg 
) and* observed. .ttab 


mSL 




,tia on * the :10th of February 1951* At 005 5Z . ^ 




obiectr 


ZW^TZtrtSD 1 <^f 7 o 


While-Hying InVtHe lar t ~-se at ~arr 10,000 feet on & true course of 
230 degrees at a position of V49-50 North 50-03 West, I observed a glow of 
light belqu the horizon abouti 1,000 to .1,500 feet above the water. Its 
bearing was abcnt^2.iO* Clock. ( There was no overcast,- .there was a thin '■ 
~trl5sn«jmt.pTO Tro ogpae^s at/a b oat 3.000 feet altitude. _ After exandng . 
"tKjcoBJ oct _ rnr/ 40 -to 50 aecQnd37-I-aalled--it to the .attention of Lieutenant 
Kmrn nrc in the rigit'Band seafT It was under the thin scuds at roughly 30 . ; 
to-’40 mile^. awajvt .l asked "What is it,, a ship l^hted up or a eity, I know 
It; can't be a' dty.-tecause we are over. 250 miles out". . We both observed Its 
course land motion, for about 4 or 5 minutes before caning it to the . , .. 
.attention of tbe-'other :crew members, sits firpt glow was a dull yellow.' We 
yare.-on an intercepting course.- . Suddenly .ite angle of attack changed, its 
altitude id size "increased as though it3 speed was in excess of 1,000 miles 
peS.honr. -jt dosed.:, in. bo-fast that the first feeling, was we would collide • 
iaiald air. At this'. time its angle -changed, and ihe-eolor changed. It 
tlHQ^mas ua l-el j cj-'t-l'- rrail a-" trr. d redish orange cn- its primiter. It reversed 
ltm-coarse and tripld' its speed nnitli it wan last neen. disappearing over- , 
V fK, >. — ' t fa . * Because >nf our altitode and mi el pwdl ngndl stance over water it” 
' is4ilmo sii iaoosaihleiio-' estimate its size r .disxanee-and speed. A rough. 
"estimate- would be afOeast 300 /eet in- diameter, over 1,000 miles per. hour 




m - 




. ■ ' (si >0 


s JSUr a- v 




/s/C-raham E. 3ETHPNE 


LT, P. S. Havel Reserve. 




ENCLOSURE (4) 




t v r< 1 -^rAQc;!Fi£D downgraded at 3 year ixtervai 


' jJNULAaJir 1W. ^ DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARtL. 


. '"DOD DrR'£ 200 . 1 U - " ' ' 






100 






?-'vT.Trvrr r nr.T.grrh' frrAIB^WISQ . - J3ULHT IC/ CONTINENTAL - 
h/r-.~ r ■ AIR THASSPOBT SQD3DBDN-' ONBr" ' v " 


•' r ' TUT;: S-4U.WE im STATION . 


S^VCr r V FArnXEST.-BIV3R, HABZUND. 


•V«£. "**•?'. • /* 4¥ t * . 


: 10 February 1951 




SE^2^Si23SSaS'-» - f—““5 ?: 




out of sight, in- a-short period of. tine. 


Due to the fact that this object ™ 


be moat dSficult • f or me to „* 3 treme^oas and the 


diameter. The object v„ cloee 


“®“«= to " ta - SM : a ai oo eerre^-t clsar y. DOWNGRADED AX S 3®^^ 


■■ V -w- " IIRCCA'SSIFJED. DEGLASalTI-. n[ \ R 520 q^q ^ 




ggjfinagiiijilg 




101 


















D ^^DODDIR 5200.10 • 








102 










at=>» 




hour, and the 




Hy.'flx3t .vlewjofidi Teaeahled'a tinge fiery orange disc on its edge, 
further away,. -the center became darxer, .‘out the edge nxill t 




'i. ; ;.iyertica*l. .ppsltloaytbg^ainrl: 




enter became darxer, .out the edge BXill threw 
^ovar the-faox i-?xcr y -it seamed to go- f rca a: 


tal posi tion, >d£frrxgcky- tho trailing- edge 




^ Sine^X wa^-note-ths first, to see it, it was 


^g n i ii r nimr rrn>n tbe«p ^>n« evhert I was. notified.- Copilot Lieutenant G. E„ 




Bvsy rrrni Plane ^vhen I was.no 
-Jj. ft&nu ag^waa_ flyl hg£th <^ plane and Second: 
. yyEIIHSDCIf was flyrn^cfetha - rleixtr.aidaat 




' hpgLiBj. snch Indorsation: and notified^the n±litar 7 -a£ xur_sighticg. Vhen 
=r ^w< v J. W7v i r ed a t ftrgnnt jg=et X0/02A0Z, we w ere Interrogated by Cant. D. H. 
EADLSSf,. USA?, PepperaJUL A?3, • a nd CDS WBHfeTEHT^O. , VP-3, il-gentii. The 
ext ra ge Speed, nanenyerability, and brilliance of the object nade oar - 
^.hLaatea aa to the distance and sinp jvory difficult. 




/a/A- L. 10SZS 


LTJG, TJS. S. HAV? 






103 


















104 




Artist's rendering of the UFO encounter, showing various stages of the sighting. Sequence 
begins at lower left and proceeds up and to the right toward the airplane, then away to the left. 






Testimony of Mr. Enrique Kolbeck, Senior Air Traffic Controller 


October 2000 


Mr. Enrique Kolbeck is a senior Air Traffic Controller at Mexico City International 
Airport. In his testimony he speaks about the frequent UFO sightings seen at the aiiport 
visually and on radar. They are clocked at tremendous speeds and making almost 
instantaneous hairpin turns. Of the 140 air traffic controllers at the aiiport, he estimates 
that over 50 have seen this phenomenon. During one sighting, 32 controllers visually 
saw the same red and white lights simultaneously moving around a conventional landing 
aircraft. There have been reports from all four air traffic control centers in Mexico of 
these UFOs. 


My name is Enrique Kolbeck. I am an Air Traffic Controller at Mexico International 
Airport. I have been a controller for 25 years. 


From the Mexico Control Center, we have had many sightings of UFO phenomenon. They 
appear suddenly and frequently cross the flight paths of the incoming aircraft. We see them on 
the radar screen and sometimes the pilots give us information about what they are seeing. We 
don’t have any kind of control over this kind of phenomenon, of course. And the pilots definitely 
feel insecure about the control of the airspace around their aircraft. 


Flying saucers: In the past, to hear that would be very funny. Today, it is very serious for us. 
Especially after the incident we had with Aeromexico flight 109. Four years ago more or less, we 
had an incident that was very dangerous involving an unidentified object. The UFO was flying 
over a very important building in the city. It is located on the final track of runway five for 
Mexico City Airport. 


This flight was coming from Guadalajara to Mexico City and I passed the control of this 
aircraft to the other controller. It is beginning the approach for runway five precisely. We saw 
two objects on the screen, two craft, very close to the aircraft at that moment. But it very 
suddenly and quickly disappeared. We had radar contact for more or less, thirty seconds. And 
the pilot doesn’t report anything. Then later we discovered that this aircraft in the final turn hit 
his principle landing gear on this kind of object. 


It is important that you know that we received information two hours later from people who 
were watching the phenomenon fly over the building. Then we heard something about the 
airplane hitting this object and it was very, very dangerous for us- because we have responsibility 
to know about everything that is flying in our airspace. 


We have a lot of reports about UFOs flying very close to the final track, within four or five 
miles from the final approach. It is very real and on radar; we have information about those 
encounters, precisely. In the week of the Aeromexico encounter, we had about seven reports 
from pilots at different in times. It is important that you know that these UFOs appear on our 
radar screens and show up like a point digitally. 


They moved definitively very fast. The human aircrafts- Boeing 727, Boeing 757- move in a 
different way and of course their speed is completely different from the UFOs. When you have 
the view of the airspace and the radar screen you see the UFOs go around twenty or thirty miles 
in a second. That is very real. And of course it is nothing like other human aircraft. The UFOs 
can turn suddenly and turn almost ninety degrees in a second or a half second. 




105 






When this kind of phenomenon appears, we see it sometimes twelve times a day, or it may 
appear twelve times a month or a week — you don’t have information about when these UFOs 
will appear. Also, the UFOs can go vertically straight up very quickly. That is completely 
different, of course, from even the military aircraft. 


But this phenomenon doesn’t come with a flight plan. Nobody knows anything about them. 
They appear when they want to appear. The pilots sometime become scared and require 
immediate information. A lot of pilots report when they have a sighting and sometimes report 
problems with their instruments of flight, the electronic instruments. These UFOs come within 2- 
5 miles of their aircraft. 


I have been seeing these UFOs on radar for seven years. Many sightings were reported near 
the volcano outside Mexico City. Once, near the volcano, a Mexican pilot had an experience with 
three objects flying around him. Two of these objects were flying on top of the wings of the 
aircraft and the other flew in front of him. We had the radar register that information. 


We have around 140 controllers at the Mexico Center. I think that 50 at least have seen the 
objects on the radar screen and had visual contact with the UFOs. On one occasion we had two 
Mexican aircraft flying from the north to land when one of them reported seeing a small object of 
red color passing beside him very fast. And the aircraft that was flying behind him also reported 
it. Within one minute of that, we saw it from the tower - a lot of people ran to the windows to 
watch this phenomenon. One was red and the other two were white. Around 32 air traffic 
controllers had the same sighting of this UFO! 


In Mexico, we have four Control Centers and 52 airports. In the four Control Centers, we 
have been getting information about radar tracking this kind of phenomenon. Y es, in all four. In 
Matzatlan, we have information that around fifteen years ago two commercial flights and another 
private aircraft were flying in Mazetlan airspace very close to the border of the United States. 
There were about four or five UFOs flying around there. The human pilots were so scared that 
they decided finally to land on Mazetlan. They didn’t consider the airspace safe at that moment. 


Our Mexican authorities have sent out a lot of information about pilots’ and controllers’ 
reports of UFOs in our country. I am sure that your country [the US] has information about these 
UFOs. I am sure that in your country a lot of controllers have information about pilots’ reports 
and sightings of pilots. I am sure. 


We also have a case where this lady took a picture with her camera of a UFO at the same 
time that we have a detection on the radar screen 40 miles away. We received information from 
different sources about that sighting which happened near Metepec. 


After that event, we had a very busy week with sightings- they happened each day for a week. 
Some pilots have seen these objects or flying saucers going down inside of the volcano. 


Just like other radars in the world, our radar doesn’t detect light. It only detects solid objects 
flying. That is very important. When you have information from pilots, controllers and people 
walking in the street seeing at the same time the same object, definitely you are talking about 
something real. It is very real. 


Really, the important thing for me and for the professional guys like me is that they represent 
traffic. At one time, we had registered on radar information about twelve or fifteen UFOs at the 
same time! At the same time! They were very close to the city and the airport also. 




106 






The pilots report the size of some of these objects at around 100 meters or greater. I 
remember reports of a Mexicana aircraft flying from Santa Cruz to Mexico City and they had a 
sighting of a very large UFO. Another pilot flying 40 miles behind the first aircraft has the same 
object in sight. They are talking about how enormous it was. With 40 miles between the aircraft, 
the object was enormous. 


Testimony of Dr. Richard Haines 


November 2000 


Dr. Haines has been a NASA research scientist since the mid 1960’s. He has worked on the 
Gemini, Apollo, and Skylab programs as well as several others. Over the past 30 years, Dr. 
Haines has compiled over 3,000 cases of unusual visual and radar sightings of unexplained 
aerial phenomena. He notes that numerous foreign cases also appear in the literature and are 
very similar in nature to the American reports. In one case here in America, a B-52 captain 
told him that he and his crew had five round spheres appear just off of each wingtip, behind 
their aircraft, above the aircraft, and below and they kept up with the plane at cruise altitude 
and speed. The captain tried to shake the spheres with evasive maneuvers but each sphere 
kept exact position. There are other cases where pilots look into the transparent cupola of 
some of the UFOs and detail can be seen inside. 


... In many cases, Air Force interceptors have been sent up to identify or investigate the 
phenomenon. And the pilot might ask for radar coverage. Did you see anything on radar? I have 
many, many cases in my AIRCAT files where there is good, positive, visual radar 
correspondence. 


AIRCAT stands for Air Catalogue. This is a rather extensive library I’ve been collecting for 
almost 30 years now from commercial, military, private and test pilots. I have over 3,000 cases. I 
have tape recordings or video recordings of the interviews with some of the pilots. I have FAA 
tapes that you can obtain as a citizen through Freedom of Information Act requests. And so this 
database is very large. Those cases that are not complete are usually the result of a hesitancy on 
the part of the pilot to disclose everything. If they are a commercial pilot, for instance, there may 
be concerns about job security or ridicule... 


We have an interesting case involving several aircraft, compasses deviating, radio frequency 
interference, and radar. There is a wealth of data there. And it just amazes me that my colleagues 
in the physical sciences, for some reason aren’t interested in this subject. . . 


Is there some intelligent guidance behind the phenomenon? Well that’s a scientific question. 
That is a valuable scientific question. And to me, where I am right now in the data analysis, I 
think there is. I’m gaining more and more data to make this case that there is a high degree of 
intelligence and control behind this phenomenon. . . 


I had a B-52 captain tell me once that he was flying in the front left seat of a brand new B-52 
from Wichita, Kansas, where it was made by the Boeing Corporation. His job was to ferry that 
aircraft with a light crew to an Air Force base in the southwestern part of America. It was a clear, 
sunny day, beautiful bright sky, and an object, a round sphere, probably four or five feet in 
diameter with no markings, no rivets, no seams, no insignias, no USAF on the side- showed up 
right off his left wing tip. Well, his co-pilot said. Captain, we have an object off our right wing 
tip and he described it and it was the same shape, size, everything, identical to this one on the left 
wing. So there are two objects now keeping up with the aircraft at cruise altitude and cruise 
speed. 




107 






Well, to make a long story short, he told me that an object showed up behind the aircraft, 
above the aircraft, below the aircraft and off each wing tip, five total. And, I said, well, what did 
you do. He said, well, I hit the autopilot button on the control column and went into evasive 
maneuvers, which is kind of standard operating procedure, to try to shake these things. He said if 
they were balloons, they weren’t going to keep up with us very long. If they were birds, why 
were they at that altitude and flying at 300 or 400 miles an hour, so forth and so on. Good, 
typical piloting behavior, checking off what they weren’t, you see. Well, he said, no matter what 
he did with that aircraft, they stayed with the aircraft, perfectly aligned. It is called station 
keeping. So he said, after a while of this, we are running out of fuel and I have a job to do. So he 
added power, got back up to cruise altitude, and put her back on autopilot. After 15 or so minutes 
more the objects departed from the aircraft in the exact opposite order they arrived. Intelligence. 
To me that’s not random. That is intelligence. That is deliberate. . . 


Now the skeptics will say that these are all visual illusions. And I can’t buy that. Not all 
these cases, not with three sets of eyeballs in that cockpit, not with radar confirmation, not with 
ground confirmation by radar and even additional aircraft nearby. . . 


Pilots, being professionals, have careers at stake. And so it is easier not to report them and 
usually they don’t report them. My estimate is that for every one pilot who does come forward 
and makes a confidential or a public report, there are 20, 30 other pilots who don’t. 


As a result of this review of my AIRCAT files, I found a number of cases back in the ‘60’s 
for instance when the Air Force was still heavily involved in this subject, where they stepped in 
and interrogated commercial pilots. Not just their own military pilots, but also commercial pilots. 
The Air Force ended the interview by saying you are not to tell anybody about what you saw. . . 


Quite often there is a little protrusion either on the top or the bottom, or both, that some 
people describe as a cupola or a cockpit of some sort. And very often, they are transparent. And 
detail can be seen inside the windows. It is very interesting for a pilot to look you in the eye and 
tell you that he saw this at 100 yards distance, at altitude. That has a great emotional impact on 
me, I must say... 


Testimony of Mr. Franklin Carter, US Navy 


December 2000 


Mr. Carter was trained as an electronic radar technician in the Navy in the 50 ’s and 60 ’s. 


He tells of an incident where he witnessed a clear, unambiguous radar contact speeding 
along at 3,400 miles an hour. There were other radar operators as well who, at various 
times in 1957 and 1958, also witnessed these unusually fast moving objects. At the time, 
the fastest human aircraft clocked in at 1,100 miles and hour. In one case an Air Force 
operator tracked one of these UFOs 300 to 400 miles out in space. When these reports 
repeatedly kept coming in to General Electric who manufactured the radar, their 
technicians came in and modified the electronics so that the radar would limit it’s 
reporting to 12 to 15 miles out into space. 


...But we had a very unusual experience one night. I was a radar specialist and my 
job was to maintain the radar’s aboard the ship... I got off-duty one night at midnight and 
went to bed and was called and told to come fix the radar, there was something wrong with it. 
When I got up to CIC and I asked them what the problem was. They said, well, we are tracking 
an aircraft here at 3,400 miles an hour. And I said, well, there is something wrong. So I took that 




108 






radar offline, put the stand-by radar online and went to work. And I started running all the tests. 
And everything was normal. And I completed all of the preliminary tests that you would run to 
check out a radar and everything checked out absolutely normal. . . 


They told me this had been an absolute stellar contact — this was a blip that was better than a 
half-inch across which indicated a really large target or something very close. It tracked every 
sweep. And if you get anomalies usually what will happen is every sweep or every other sweep 
you’ll get a bla nk or maybe every 10 sweeps but it’ll bla nk out. But this one was solid on every 
sweep and that indicates a solid target. . . 


Then one night I was on the plot board, maybe three or four months later. And here comes 
this contact. And with the second blip you could see that this thing was really moving. It was 
moving like three or four inches on a 360-mile scale. And so sure enough, I plotted it and it was 
3,400 miles an hour. And again we didn’t report it. But they say there is nothing wrong, this is 
our friend back. We didn’t make a big deal out of it but we sure would have liked to know what 
that was: 3,400 miles an hour in 1957! The closest thing that we had was about 1,100 miles an 
hour then. 


It continued to happen during the year, the last part of ‘57, and up until May of ‘58. It 
happened at least three more times. And I had radar operator friends that would tell me, well, we 
had another one of those fast ones last night. And it always was at night. . . 


We tracked them at 3,400 miles an hour. He said, the interesting part of it was we tracked 
them 300 and 400 miles out in space. And he said, we complained to General Electric who had 
built the system. And so we kept reporting these events and they kept telling us we couldn’t 
report that stuff. So we said, well, we are doing it and it is real. And so they came in and actually 
made movies of the scope and when they took them back and analyzed what they were seeing, 
they came back and put a fix into the radar so their distance into space was like 12 or 15 miles. 
They said, that’s all the ballistic missiles will ever go. You don’t need to see any further. So they 
just limited the receivers to where the scope would only expand to where they could see 12 to 15 
miles out in space. His name was Dave Wallace. . . 


When people claim that these UFOs may be the figment of my imagination, I say I was a 
damn good E.T. [electronics technician]. I knew my radar. It was my love at the time. And I 
know the systems and that there was nothing wrong with those systems. I knew that we were 
tracking real contacts. I knew the difference between what they call running rabbits and all of the 
other test bogeys that they would give us. 


I doubt very seriously that in 1956 and ‘57, that the U.S. had craft, even in the experimental 
stage, that could fly 3,400 miles an hour, repeatedly... They didn’t want anybody to know 
anything about what we were seeing. And I think that started the cover-up. And then it got out of 
hand. 


But I know that the only people that they are keeping it secret from today are the Americans. 
Everybody else knows about it and accepts it. And all of the other Governments in the world 
except England and the U.S. primarily, are accepting it. It’s very irritating to me personally, to 
see that go on. . . 


I think it is important that we recognize that there are civilizations that we need to 
communicate with. And I think we’ve reached that point in our evolution as a human race that 
we need to recognize that. And the thing that disturbs me is that the U.S. is going to be a third 
world nation in that field if we are not careful by having all of this secrecy and refusing to set up 




109 






any kind of diplomatic protocols as I know that you [SG] have called for and which 1 believe in 
very strongly. Because they are out there. Other nations recognize them and they are going to 
talk to the people [ETs] that are willing to talk to them on a peaceful basis. I’m hoping that 
people will come to their senses and stop hiding this stuff from the U.S. citizens. . . 


I also investigated a military sighting by a friend of mine. We knew each other in business 
for about seven or eight years. And he did not know that I had any interest in UFO’s. And I did 
not know that he knew what a UFO was until I saw him make a report of a sighting one day. So I 
called him up and talked to him about it. He told me about his sighting when he was a Fieutenant 
in the Air Force. He was a navigator on a RB-36, which had the big cameras and they did all of 
the secret photographing back in the ‘50’s. He was the navigator on one of these with 22 people 
aboard his plane. They were up over North Dakota and somebody called from the tail gunner 
section and said look out over the left wing. And out- they estimated 100 yards from the left 
wing- was this 100-foot disc. And this was as clear as day. He says they talked to the radar 
control tower and they had it on radar. All of the guys got up and went and took pictures of it. 
They had been given cameras. Now this is another part of it- the secrecy thing. They had been 
given 35mm cameras and told how to fill out a report if they saw a UFO. He said all 22 guys got 
up and looked out the window and saw this thing for about five or six minutes and then it just 
took off. . . 


What was interesting was that when he landed they were met by an Air Force group. They 
debriefed all of these people and told them that they could not discuss it for 12 years, and that 
they were under a secrecy oath. And then a week later a group from Washington came out and 
debriefed them and reminded them of their secrecy oath. They confiscated all of the camera and 
the films and everything. And then when he was discharged from the Air Force he was a Colonel 
in the Reserves, they reminded him again that he had signed a secrecy oath about this. His name 
is Jim Floyd. 




Testimony of Mr. Neil Daniels, Airline Pilot 


November 2000 


Mr. Daniels is a pilot with over 30,000 of flight time spanning 59 years. He entered the 
Air Force and became a B-17 pilot surviving 29 combat missions. After leaving the Air 
Force he worked for United Airlines for 35 years. He tells about the time in March of 
1977 when he was flying a commercial flight from San Francisco to Boston. The plane 
was on autopilot when by itself it began to ha nk left. He looked out the window and 
noticed a brilliant bright light. The first and second officers both saw it also. They were 
perplexed because all three compasses reported different readings. 


...The one and only sighting that I had was in March of 1977. I was flying a DC- 10 on a 
flight from San Francisco to Boston. And it was United Flight 94. We were about halfway 
between Buffalo and Albany at 37,000 feet, fog cover underneath, dark night, when all of a 
sudden the airplane which was on auto pilot started a 1 5 degree turn to the left. And of course I 
looked out the window and I saw this brilliant light. 


The first officer saw it and the second officer got out of his seat and took a look. And that’s 
when the Air Traffic Control in Boston wanted to know what was happening. So we told them 
when we figured it out we’d give them a call. And about that time the first officer hit the auto 
pilot release button and went back to manual control. As I was looking out the window this thing 
that we had seen disappeared back towards the left of the airplane and to our rear at a very rapid 
rate. The whole event took place in probably less than three minutes or so. . . 




110 






Well, the first officer’s autopilot, which is connected to the Captain’s compass, is out in the 
left wingtip of the airplane. And apparently for some reason or another the magnetic force was 
interrupted to cause the aircraft to veer off course because it is hooked up to the compass. All 
three compasses were giving different readings, which is very unusual. So what we gathered was 
it was an enormous magnetic force in whatever that ball was that we saw out there, that white 
light. 


After we turned the autopilot off and the first officer straightened out the airplane the 
magnetic interference that had made the compasses all different readings ended and all returned 
to normal. And the object had disappeared away from us. So everything returned to a normal 
state... 


In the past pilots that had seen things and had talked about it were let go. Some were released 
from their flying and treated as nutcases and things like that. So that was the last I said of it for 
many, many years. 


Quite a few pilots have told me of their incidents and their sightings and what has happened. 
And one especially, was a sighting back on the east coast and he saw this thing for a long time, 
something like 18 minutes. And when he reported it to his boss, it was a different airline not 
United Airlines, they investigated it and the Government said, well, that’s swamp gas. At 18,000 
feet, doing 250 knots, swamp gas! No one really wanted to admit that there might possibly be 
something there. 




Testimony of Sgt. Robert Blazina (retired) 


August 2000 


Mr. Robert Blazina is a retired military man with a top-secret clearance. He worked 
transporting nuclear weapons all over the world. He personally witnessed a UFO 
maneuvering in the clear nights sky at an incredible speed straight up. Another time he and a 
civilian 747 both saw on their radar screens an object travel an estimated 10,000 miles an 
hour directly at them. 


... My first experience with UFOs was in 1952. I was on a flight from Seattle, coming back 
to Sacramento. It was between 10 and 12 midnight. It was a clear, dark night. Sitting there, 
looking ahead, I saw this orange glow in front of us. . .. 


We added power and we kept getting closer and of course it got larger until we got up to 
about Redding, California. It went into a descent and we followed it. We picked up quite a bit of 
speed in a shallow dive and it went clear into Sacramento and across the city and right over the 
capital building. We were right on it. We had the aircraft redlined, as fast as it could go. At that 
point, it went vertical and it disappeared in a matter of two seconds, straight up... 


While in the Air Force Reserves in the 1970s, we were coming back from Germany. We 
were in a C-141 and we were, at the time, 35,000 feet plus. We were around two hours out of 
Dover, Delaware. Again, it was clear skies, but dark. We observed this object on our radar 
screen. We had two of the scopes on board, the pilots had one and the navigator had one, and it 
was on both of them. It would come directly at us, but we couldn’t see it visually and then it 
would turn off. It made several passes at us, in fact, one time it came directly on our nose, so 
close that the pilot took evasive action. 




Ill 






At the same time, there was a civilian 747 off to our right that we could see. We contacted 
him and the pilots talked back and forth. They were seeing the same thing on their radar that we 
were seeing and we couldn’t figure it out. The navigator, he worked it out and said that it (the 
UFO) was traveling 10,000 miles per hour, plus. . . 


Testimony of Lieutenant Frederick Marshall Fox, US Navy (retired) 


September 2000 


Lieutenant Fox was in the Navy in the 60’s flying attack planes. He had a top-secret 
clearance and served in Vietnam. He is a retired pilot of 33 years with American 
Airlines. In his testimony, he reveals that there is a publication called JANAP 146 E 
that has a section which states that no one is to share any information regarding the 
UFO phenomenon under penalty of $10,000 fine and 10 years in prison. During one 
incident in late 1964, while flying an A4 Skyhawk, he says that all of a sudden a 
darkened saucer shaped object about 30 feet in diameter appeared on his left side. 
There were many other events over the course of his career where he observed saucer 
shaped and cigar shaped UFOs over military installations as well as one time seeing two 
red lights traversing the night’s sky from horizon to horizon in three seconds. He was 
afraid to bring up these events to others due to the inherent ridicule in the subject. 


. . .In the Navy my rank was Lieutenant and I was a nuclear weapons delivery pilot so I had a 
top-secret clearance. 


Well, as far as the Navy goes I was Code 4 PUBS, which was a confidential publications and 
communications officer. There is a publication called JANAP 146 E that had a section that says 
you will not reveal any information regarding the UFO phenomenon under penalty of $10,000.00 
fine and ten years in jail. So they were quite adamant that whatever experiences you had you 
were not to go public with it without their permission. . . 


I was out about 180 miles from the carrier one night by myself at about 20,000 feet when an 
object showed up on my left side. It didn’t have any hostile intent; it was just there observing me. 
And I sort of observed it and came away with a very peaceful feeling. I never said anything to 
anybody until later in my career with the airlines. I later found out a fellow shipmate of mine had 
a similar incident. 


The object was maybe 30 feet in diameter... Maybe it was an intelligence gathering disc. It 
was saucer shaped. . . 


The subject never came up with Air Traffic Control. In any event I would never have opened 
my mouth. There was a Captain, Pete Killian, who was written about in some of the UFO books. 
He was a Captain with American Airlines back in the ‘50’s that evidently had a sighting and 
testified before the Senate committees. And then there was another captain that actually took a 
photograph of a UFO off his wings. And of course they were subject to ridicule. I didn’t want to 
go that direction. So, I never reported anything to FAA or the military. A lot of pilots just did 
not want to get involved in this because of peer pressure and ridicule. So the secret has been 
kept. . . 


I have a very personal friend that was a B-24 pilot during W.W.II that got into [the] O.S.S. 
And he was one of the first people into Japan after the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, 
Nagasaki. He ended up on Project Bluebook, Section 13, which I believe was the top-secret 




112 






portion of that investigation. At the time he was a captain in the Air Force. He’s in his late ‘70’s 
now and he is still being carried on active duty as a captain. I don’t know if he’s being paid but if 
he’s on active duty he should be a three star general with time and ra nk and he should be paid. 
And the whole reason that they have kept him on active duty is to keep his national security oath 
active because of what he knows. There are certain things that he will not talk to me about 
because of that security oath even though I had a top secret clearance with the Navy and we are 
both very interested in the same thing. 


For whatever reason the Government, or those agencies of Government, deem necessary to 
protect their agendas, which obviously now, aren’t our agendas. I think it is time for us to act, to 
end this charade. And to take whatever steps are necessary to insure that the human race evolves 
properly and enjoys the fruits of that evolution. 


Testimony of Captain Massimo Poggi 


September 2000 


Captain Poggi is a senior 747 captain for Alitalia . Fie relates an event where when flying 
from Rome to Sao Paolo in July of 1999 he witnessed a glowing green halo soaring past just 
500 feet below his 747. The aircraft experienced a sudden jump when this UFO passed 
underneath. Very noisy static came through his headphones during this experience. At 
another time while flying over Turin Italy in 1992, he saw a distant elliptical sphere 
maintaining a very steady position relative to the clouds as if stationary. He saw this UFO 
through a spotting scope. After looking away to briefly speak to his co-pilot, he looked back 
and it was gone. 


My name is Massimo Poggi. I am a senior captain, of a Boeing 747 in Alitalia, Italy’s airline. 
On the 1 st of July, 1999, 1 was flying from Rome to Sao Paolo, Brazil. Almost at the mid- Atlantic 
position we had a background noise on our headphones which was increasing and became very, 
very noisy with static. Then in a couple of seconds we saw a halo, a glowing green, glowing 
light, diffuse, just flying very fast below our nose, below our aircraft. At the same time the 747 
had a sudden jump, just one, only one jump. Half a second later the noise and light had 
disappeared. That’s the only jump we had in eleven hours [of] flight. 


This object was very, very near. We were flying at 930 kilometers per hour, about 500 knots, 
and the object that crossed under us was a lot faster - I think 1,000 knots, or much more. The 
object was below us but not by much - maybe 500 feet. It was very near, yes. For an aircraft 
flying, it was a near collision. 


Testimony of Lieutenant Bob Walker, US Army 


October 2000 


Lieutenant Walker was a 2 nd lieutenant in the Army. After World War II at a NASA 
(then NACA) open house he saw a 30-foot saucer-shaped craft which had been brought 
back from Germany for study. On another occasion he was piloting an aircraft for a TV 
station when a disc shaped object came in from the west. He had his camera and climbed 
to 12,000 feet to take some photos of it. After landing, he immediately had the pictures 
developed and enlarged. The object turned out to be a football shaped silver object with 
points at each end. His film was subsequently taken from him under unusual 
circumstances. In his testimony he also speaks of a time when he happened into a diner 
late at night near Ft. Campbell in Kentucky and overheard conversations from MPs about 




113 






how a flying saucer had landed next to a nearby farmhouse and the MP’s were there 
cordoning off the area. Creatures were present and were shot at by the frightened 
farmhouse owner. 




. . .1 happened to catch a strange transmission from the tower. The tower said that there was a 
disc shaped object coming in from the west. And I thought, “Well this is a pretty good 
opportunity. I will take a look and see if I can see it.” I guess now if I were to estimate altitude 
the object would be somewhere not less than 50,000 and on up. 


So I called the tower after they were making people alert of what was coming over the area. 
And the tower said, “What do you want to do?” And I said, “If you don’t mind, will you release 
me from 2,000 and let me go to 12,000, which was my maximum altitude without oxygen. And 
they said, “Go right ahead.” And it took me several minutes to climb from two to twelve and I 
got up and about that time a silver ball was passing over and I took a number of shots on 35mm 
film as it was going over. 


And the next thing that I knew it was gone. After I had gotten down, I asked what happened 
and they said, “Well, they had alerted the fighters at Langley to take a look at what it was. And 
by the time they could get scrambled and get in the air and get to that altitude, it was gone. . . 


I didn’t make it known to anybody but somehow somebody knew that I had this picture and I 
got a call, probably about six or eight weeks later. And they said, “We are into this area of 
gathering information on possible UFOs and I understand that you took some pictures and would 
you mind loaning them to us so that we could just take a look.” I didn’t ask for credentials or 
anything like that and I said, “Well, in addition to pictures I also have kind of an interesting 
collection of news items that have come over AP for the past five years.” And, they said, “Well, 
bring those along. We are interested. We would like to look at that.” 


The house was not furnished as though it was a home. It was very lightly furnished. It was 
an older home and didn’t have anything in it of any value, as I recall. No antiques and no oriental 
rugs or anything. In fact, it was kind of shabby. It kind of made me curious as to what he did and 
who else was in the house. But I turned it over to him and I thought, “Well, call me when you are 
finished or else I will come back and get it.” And he didn’t call me for about two or three weeks. 
And I thought, “Well, that is enough time.” 


Since I didn’t hear from him and I didn’t have his telephone number, I thought I would go on 
back to the house and pick it up. Well, I got to the house and the house was empty. I had no idea 
who the person was. I was very naive- more so because I didn’t keep a negative on it and I didn’t 
keep a print. These were original things that I had. The newspaper didn’t keep a copy either 
because when we did that we were just doing it for our own interest. It wasn’t for print or 
publication. And they disappeared from my life forever. . . 


Another time, I was interviewing the Director of NASA at Langley and we began talking 
about flying saucers. I got the typical nebulous but not evasive answers. And one of the things 
we were talking about was different aircraft and UFOs and we were kind of blending the subject 
in together very nicely. So I said, “Well what about aircraft in the future? What are they going to 
be like? And he said, “We have aircraft now. We have vehicles or aircraft now that we could 
actually fly but they are so unique and so unorthodox that the public would not accept them. 


He was explaining that these craft were not conventional. I guess he was referring to the fact, 
no rudder, no tail, no wings or whatever. . . 




114 






Testimony of Mr. Don Bockelman, US Army 


September 2000 


Mr. Bockelman was a Launch Area Electronics Technician for the US Army. He was also 
trained as a systems analyst and worked on Nike Hercules missiles. For two years he 
worked for Honeywell making nuclear tipped toipedoes. Mr. Bockelman heard 
numerous first hand accounts from various radar operators that they were seeing 
extremely fast targets moving at 3500 miles an hour. Some of these were making 
impossibly small-radius turns. At one time he witnessed an attempted to shoot one down 
with an air defense missile near Mount Vernon, WA. 


. . . There are technicians and operators dealing with really high speed, very mobile targets 
which were UFOs on radar. I heard a number of those accounts from operators. They were 
stationed at different places around the world. Integrated Fire Control is where the radars were 
stationed in relation to the missiles and it is a whole bunch of radars. They would recount stories 
where vehicles would come in and they would track them and pass them off and they would be 
going 700 miles an hour and accelerate to 3,500 miles in the atmosphere quite rapidly. It was off 
the scale in terms of what the technology for our potential Russian targets were. It was off the 
scale. I want to say that these operators are very adept. They are trained to determine the 
difference between radar strikes and any atmospheric disturbances that can approximate targets. 
They are experts at it. 


So when they were tracking targets, they were tracking the actual physical objects in the 
atmosphere. They were 100% convinced that there were physical targets that were in the 
atmosphere and were involved in a variety of different types of travel. That was in the late 1 960s 
that I was hearing these reports. The reports went back into the 1950s because a lot of the older 
operators had been on Ajax sites and they were tracking them. . . 


After leaving the military, one evening I was sitting in my living room and it was in October 
of 1978 and 1 had all the lights off and I was just sitting there letting my mind wander and quite 
abruptly all of a sudden four amber lights started shining in the room and filling it with a diffuse 
amber light. Needless to say, I turned around quite rapidly to determine what it was that 1 was 
seeing. And there were three lights who were approximately equal distance from each other and 
a fourth one off of the equal distance spacing a little bit, but in the same plane. . . 


Then this jet came from due west. I saw this object while I was standing on the back porch of 
my house, and it was then attacked and fired on by an air defense missile. As it turned out it was 
a high explosive missile right at the target. Shrapnel was falling to the ground. It had exploded 
and the object was accelerating away at a mind-boggling speed away from where the attack 
occurred. The actual attack on the craft occurred about ten miles east of Sedro Woolley. I would 
say about three miles north of the area called Lyman [and] Hamilton. 


About the objects which we tracked on radar while I was in the military, outside of the speed, 
the thing that was most impressive about these targets is their capacity to have abrupt turns. 
People who are in air defense look at mass and turning radius. We had nothing that was capable 
of matching their capacity for minuscule turning radiuses. We are talking about virtually no 
radius turns at high speeds. 2,000 miles an hour and right angle turns. And not only turns but 
descents and ascents. They would descend rapidly. It didn’t seem to make any difference to 
them in which direction where they went. . . 




115 








116 






.. o — 


azcoHirr ihformation /„> 




Cl' 




SUPPLEMENT TO AF FORM 112 




UFMT NCL 


GAlrC ~ oZ Intelllgenc< IR-4-S8 




a. " 7 




sr^s 


sntr*i^2.s j e2; , «S“ all L2:eSr2 3 were 


evuiYf action. Tbe Incident q to « ip P ears at to be 


SS S&« out^thelr^ysten -S^SS^T^ 


locked * on^^A^econd 


seeing red and green lieh P atloned at sites reported 
Visibility was good. Bowew was associated with lights 


period.' A commercial flight 4oluntlerId +d, V ^ lbl ^ f ° r only a sb °rt 
He was vectored within a hand! ^ target ' 


live sighting. Target faded out at 0208R « W tarc i ” P ° rt6tl “ Sa 


targefwes^of cann! ^r’ “ dar / e P°^ed unidentified 
tlgate. Negative results was sent to laves- 


i“!II, Vith negatlVe Sl » htl ^ ; .,^act wi?* : tL^w^brokln at 


• •— * 1 








s 




VERNON D. ADAMS • 


Captain, TJSAF 


Ass*t. Director of Intelligence 




APPROVED BT: 




GEORGE tfELTER 
Lt Col., USAr 
Director of Intelligence 




- 117 




117 






"V 
y 


%**.cv/urr iriromMATiorr •>*«« #/w ;*> 




d.' 




SUPPLEMENT TO AF FORM 112 


AC C7 S, G— 2 USARCARI3 


MFO«T *Q. 


” IR-4-5S 


»*U / 


3 


| e» /"/ >*eo 


! / 




lection MemoraS^ ^e^ig.nce CoX- 


"Unccnventional Aircraf t" thi fol?™? 1957 . subject: 


' the following information, is submitted: 


Officer, 764th Anti-Aircraft t^neratlons r‘ ® tah J“ an > Operations 
Canal Zone r reported information no ^ ^ ente f (AAOC) , Fort Clayton 
unidentified flying object^ At ZOO-JR 63 "^* ^-i o=f htla * ot an 
Deputy Defense Commander for >Lti AircrLt^t ' 1958 ' Stab la an, as 
at his home by the 
haa received a radar rflnn r+ _ * wiicer, AAOC, that the AAOC 


i^ ?ZCiflC Side 01 the Isthmus of U panama^ ^S tahlman** 1 f pp T° achln e 
AAOC at approximately 2008R. * Stahlman arrived at the 


on the radar screen, r two r additlonal°bliM £ llp which a PPeared 


sssrasi ffs£~££ 


"ss °4 .... 


Unit located at Flamenco Island 7 V° ? he Track Radar 




Number of Objects; 




Two, approximately one 
hundred yards apart. 




Duration of Radar Observation: 2003R, 9 March 1958 to 


0208R, 10 March 1958. 




Location of Radar: 
Location of Object: 


C . . 


Prevailing Weatherj, 
Direction of Flight: 
Manner- of Flight: 


Altitude: 




Battery D, 764th AAA Bn, 
Flamenco island 


LJ 2853. (Geo-Ref, uni- 
tary Grid Reference System) 


Average angle of elevation, 
365 , Azimuth,' 330 mils. 


■Steady, slight circular 
path over the vicinity of 
Fort Kobbe, Canal Zone. 


Varied from two to ten 
thousand feet. Average of . 
•seven thousand feet. 


r ■, ^ Afl attem P t Ta s made by members of the Radar Site, Flamenco 
Island to observe the objects by searchlights: Vhen the light 


touched the objects, they traveled from an altitude of two thousand 
feet to ten thousand feet in five to ten seconds. 




WARNING: Thi . 1m* 




/a/mvmIim !*>• «*/»«*/ Imlmnmm mi Ihm VtUtml Sim tea wifk.’e «*« m*mmrnimS mi tKr 


' ^ —mmtimnm 733 4<W 791. »!• Ii»w»w w « i »m m* I Km rmrmimtimm mm Urn (enlcnn ia any f-rrir >• an 




- 118 - 




118 










Ibis T1S such a rapid movement, that the Track Radar which was 
1 ?+h e *s° Q taJEet > broke the Track Lock and was unable to keep up 
-with the ascent of the objects. .As Track Radar can only be locked 


iied i Wh ^ h TaS d ° ne in the case ol the tB ° unidentl- 


£“ ed objects, it was assumed that the oblects wpi-o o~hh 


The possibility that the sightings might have been welther batons 
-was discarded when the Air Force was fontacled and s«teS tha^o 
balloons were in the air at that time. (P-3) 


— ‘erni-ff v?f Ch 1 ® 58 * Stahlman made another report con- 


!ad^ _ w»+ d lBht i n ? 0l an unidenti iied flying object by Search 
tada. located on Taboga Island, Republic of Panama. The following 
information was obtained in regard to the 'sightings : S 




Number of Objects: 


Duration of Radar Observation: 




Location of Radar: ' 




Location of Object: 




Prev.-.lling Weather: 
Uanner of Plight: 




Altitude : 




• 1012R to 1412R, 


10 liarch 1958. 


Taboga Island Radar 


• Site. 


KL 1646. (Geo-Ref, 
lillitary Grid Reference 
: System) 


Partly cloudy. 


Prom an erratic to a 
triangular shaped 
flight pattern. 


Undeterminable due to 
radar system used. 




— Speed: - Variable,- from hovering 


I • ' ""'to approximately one 


thousand miles per hour, 


Trick Radar indicated that the object moved nway from two 
nited States Air Force Jet aircraft that were approaching. At 
that time the speed of the object was calculated at approximately 
jone thousand miles per hour. The use of Track Radar was .terminated 


I " . " " 


.3. On 11 March 1958, Lt. Roy M. Strom, Operations Officer 
X64th AAA Bn, Fort Clayton, Canal Zone, reported information re- 
elved from a Pan-American Airlines Pilot concerning an unidentlflec 
lying object. At approximately 0400R, il March 1958, the pilot of 
Incoming, aircraft C-509, a Pan American Airlines DC-6, observed an 
“nidentif led flying object 12 degrees North on Fox Trot route. The 
bject appeared larger than the aircraft and was traveling in a 
-outheasterly direction. : 




- 119 - 


• 


— Ci T hi, V— v — .n* nni^n. W.tm.tf.ii (A. m,ti»n,l A./.na. •/ th. l/nii,. Si.iw WrhiA IA. mmaAaj WiA. 


Uw«, Till* it, V. 5. C.. Sr* limn* 79) and 7ft. /u irani«i«w*n me tbt fMa/an'aa mi ««a MnlfAiatM «wy mas r*m/ 19 a m 
■ ymttmn St prrfu'kiUtf k/ law. it may r\mt b* tapre^rcwaf I" wke/a me it \ part, kf elkaf Ikan 1/ntrrV .Srstmt Air ^erca 


f Afmmirnm, ai %»mi by ymrmJtmemrn mi Itta i)ira«lM mi /atMii|anCa, iebmr, 






SUPPLEMENT TO AF FORM 112 




AC OF 5, G-2 USAECARIB 




IR-4-58 








» be 3:m f , tJjae Lt - Strom reported that an unidentified 
+^ri S ,* bJect w f a Picked up by Hawk Radar. The object was dotted 


thlr-' pi o t PP ^t X 05l7R ly th S ° 8 ihi be + t *i a 5 North »e8t at LK 3858. On the 
X I 1 j! 0SI7R, the object had moved to LK 5434 in k c„,, t v 


j^stST 


requires tL?^*** 3 COlGffiNT: -DAICM iW00-72B-l mentioned above 


°^ t v 8 Dearest « a J°r Air Command should be notl- 




H •AfUiUiO: Thit rMI«>M l*Um reiW.en •MmtlSni if .. MhW 4*Un— «/ «A. tfelfe* Slmimt wilhS* fA. •/ «*• 


t - **. J"/»/e ii, V. 3. C.. 3#cn«A» fM TM. fra •' (A* raM/ali'ea •/ *la (•mmo /n «a/ mmnltmr tm ml* 


»a*«rlMWfW r— <*" /• ft* /*-. /» »w%« A. fn •»#»*#• mr ti* pmn. Ar eifur rA«n Un.i.4 Strnimm Air 


A|*n«;»«. nt*mi hr pmemUrmimrt mt lA. Dirmmtmr •/ tnitUigmntm, USA F. •* 




120 






• • . . o 


UNCLASSIFIED... • 


urcc/iurr information >>ua mrw /«) . 




r J 




& 




SUPPLEMENT TO AF FORM 112 




OarSBunnC i£9CT 


CAlrC, Director of Intel. 


WONT NO. - 


-IR-4-58 


A £ «. -3 


EXTRACTS FROM THE LOG AT MOVEMENT It IDENTIFICATION SECTION ADOc' 


09 March 








19: 30 
‘20:45 


I 


J : 


20:45 


J . ■ .-. 


ri 


/■ 


j 23:45 


j ' " 


23:55 
J 24: 0O 


j 


10 March 
_1 00: 44 


J 00:55 


J 02: 10 
10:12 
J 


J 10:30 


J 11:20 




Unknown aircraft flying Tango Route Inbound. No known 
aircraft in area but one advised by Tocumen, tTEZ BLB ATC. 


Unidentified. blip believed to be weather balloon picked 
up between Albrook and Taboga. Appears to be orbiting. 


V? 4 . air - tr ^? llc ln 4X61 at a11 * Advised ATC of possibi- 
lity of object interfering with air traffic. 


Advised that a balloon had been released earlier in the 
evening at approximately 1830R but should be down south- 
east ox Albrook. at present time. 


Tower advised P-501 (Pan American Flight) is cleared by 


lnBtrTlctio “ order to avoid object. 
Flight P501 will cross the canal over Albrook.. 


Distance of object from D Battery (Flamingo) is 4870 
yards, height 3.S thousand feet. At the present time, a 
searchlight from harbor entrance control point is being- 
used to aid in identif ica'tion purposes, to be executed 
by one AF -Naval crash boat. .* ~~~~~ 


Object now at 6.0 feet moving away very rapidly to the 
'southwest. • 


P.adar advises that as soon as searchlight was employed, 
the object became evasive. Object now at 10.0 feet, 


780U yards from site. Two returns, one at 10.0 feet,- 
other at 08. 




Branlff Flight 400 reports negative sighting of object 
during brief investigation. Radar reported aircraft was 
approximately 100 yards from object. . 


Radar reports two targets now approximately 100 yards 
apart. Braniff Flight 400 landed at 0047. 


Radar contact lost. * 


Unknown aircraft at EJ1646, speed 290K. No known air- 
craft, ln area. Check with Tocumen, Albrook, Howard, ATC 
& CAA. Blip very practical, has reached speed of 900K 
then slows to a complete stop for several minutes before 
moving again. 


Major Davis at Howard Operations advised of UFO. He will 
go up and take a look. • • . • 


AF 5289 (T-33) airborne to check UFO. UFOrwas observed 




, WAKntHC: T4i. 4M.rn.MI r.nr./n. W , 4 — U1.1.4 J 4 mIm» mlthim I Ml • MJ..M1M, M (J>M 


J **44m.|m t— ^ Till* 14 . B. 2. C. SmImmj TM mm 4 HJ. ll. u.mihu.m. M IJM jmmJ.IJ.m ^ (I. t*M.MI.t..M, M.MMM I... 




- 121 - 




121 








Scientific Intelligence 




Chief, Ffcyolco ft Electronics Division, SI 




Unusual UFOB Report 




1. The attached ^copy of a cable Is a preliminary 


[ report from Poppsrreli Air Force Case, Newfoundland 


j reporting on what appears to ba cn unusual “unidentified 


i flying object" clcnting. 


I * \ 


2. Essentially, the "object" was apparently simultaneously 


I observed by a tanker aircraft (ICC 97 ) pilot (visually) end by 


n ground radar (type unluiovr.) site (electronically). While 
such duel (visual sad electronic} sightings of UFOB 3 are 
reported frea tins to tins, this particular report is sorts - 
what uoiouo in that; 


• '} 


a. the. "pilot of Archie 29 maintained visual contacts 
with object callins direction changes of object to (radar) site 
by radio. Direction changes correlated exactly with those 
painted cn scope by controller." 


b. In previous cases the dual (visual end electronic) 
sightings ere mostly of a few sir.utes duration at rest. This 
cos was observed by radar, r.t least, for t>9 minutes . 








3. It is reasonable to believe that core information will 
be available on this when complete resort (A? Eom 112) is 






22 








3.8.3 SAC/NUKE 




Introduction 


(transcribed and edited from an oral presentation by Dr. Greer) 


This section deals with the Strategic Air Command and UFO events involving nuclear facilities. I 
wish to emphasize again that the witnesses we have here are diverse. They range from the 
Atomic Energy Commission to people who have been at Strategic Air Command facilities and at 
missile launch control facilities throughout the United States and Canada. These witnesses give 
unmistakably clear testimony about the fact that these extraterrestrial vehicles appear to be quite 
concerned with our weapons of mass destruction. And in fact, more than one of these witnesses 
have stated to me that they believe that these extraterrestrial vehicles were there because they 
were very concerned that we might blow ourselves up- or that we might begin to go into space 
and be a threat someday to other civilizations. 


I believe this is very important because, while none of these witnesses has stated that there ever 
was any hostile action taken by these objects, it is quite clear that they are concerned about what 
we may do with weapons of mass destruction. And this speaks to something very profound: That 
we have reached the point where the only possible future is one that is peaceful. The weapons are 
too powerful and the stakes are too high to advance any further and contemplate the use of such 
weapons. We must advance forward into space without using these vast weapons within our 
arsenal against any life form. The extraterrestrial civilizations, which appear to be monitoring our 
activity and have been doing so for decades, may indeed have this as one of their chief concerns. 
And it is very likely that entry into inter-planetary society has as its primary requirement the 
ability for a people to advance into space peacefully. For we are not talking now of muskets and 
canons and swords but of thermonuclear weapons, pulsed laser weapons, and exotic technologies 
which can rip the fabric of time-space. It must be clear to all that the only survivable future is a 
peaceful one. This peace is the hallmark of the maturation of the human race. 


It is also possible that people within the national military command structure, as well as the 
national security apparatus of the United States and other countries, have misinterpreted some of 
the actions from these extraterrestrial vehicles as a violation of our airspace or our sovereignty. I 
think we must take a wider look at this and consider the fact that if we were to come across a 
planet which, within a hundred years, had gone from an agrarian civilization to one capable of the 
early stages of space flight and which had thousands of thermonuclear devices capable of 
destroying worlds, that perhaps we would be concerned as well. I think that we have to begin to 
look in the mirror as a people and ask ourselves what we should be doing to ensure a peaceful 
future for our planet and also to guarantee that we keep these weapons out of space forever. 


In discussing this issue about the Strategic Air Command facilities and nuclear events, you will 
learn that on some occasions these objects, which have hovered over control launch facilities or 
missile silos, have been able to take these devices off-line: That is, they have been able to render 
inert intercontinental ballistic missiles. I do not believe that this is a sign of any hostility on their 
part but their way of saying, "Please don’t destroy this beautiful planet; and know this: we will 
not let you destroy ours." I think it’s very important for people to understand that such actions 
however, may have been misinterpreted by certain authorities within the vacuum of secrecy and 
this is something we must look at very carefully as a civilization. What happens within the 
darkness of secrecy? Secrecy grows on itself, and it creates an information and perspective 
vacuum where there’s not enough give and take with people of differing views or from different 




123 






walks of life. In that milieu, it’s very easy for paranoia and misinterpretation to set in and that is 
one of the great inherent risks of obsessive secrecy — the kind of secrecy which President 
Eisenhower warned us about in January of 1961. 


Testimony of Captain Robert Salas 


December 2000 


Captain Salas graduated from the Air Force Academy and spent seven years in active 
duty from 1 964 to 1 97 1 . He also held positions at Martin Marietta and Rockwell and 
spent 21 years at the FAA. In the Air Force, he was an air traffic controller and a 
missile launch officer as well as an engineer on the Titan 3 missiles. He testifies about 
a UFO incident on the morning of March 16, 1967 where 16 nuclear missiles 
simultaneously became non-operational at two different launch facilities immediately 
after guards saw UFOs hovering above. The guards could not identify these objects 
even though they were only about 30 feet away. The Air Force did an extensive 
investigation of the incidents and could not find a probable cause. At a debriefing about 
the incident, an officer from the Air Force Office of Special Investigations required him 
to sign a non-disclosure form and told him that he was not to talk about the event to 
anyone including his family or other military staff. At a time during the Cold War 
when minor technical anomalies were openly communicated amongst the staff, this 
incident was not and to this day Captain Salas thinks this to be very unusual. 


RS: Capt. Robert Salas SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


RS: My name is Robert L. Salas and I graduated from the Air Force Academy and spent 
about seven and a half years in the Air Force on active duty from 1 964 to 1971. Then I went to 
work for Martin Marietta first in Denver and then Rockwell International here in the southern 
California area. I worked for the FAA in 1974 and worked for them for about 21 years and 
retired in 1995 from federal service. In the Air Force I was an air traffic controller - we called it 
ground control intercept controller. And then I was a missile launch officer. After that I was an 
engineer on the Titan 3 propulsion system out of Los Angeles Air Force station. 


The UFO incident, happened on the morning of March 16, 1967. I was on duty along with 
my commander Fred Mywald. We were both on duty at Oscar Flight as part of the 490 th strategic 
missile squad and there are five launch control facilities assigned to that particular squadron. We 
were at Oscar Flight. 


It was still dark out and we’re sixty feet underground [at the ICBM launch control facility]. It 
was early in the morning and I received a call from my topside security guard who’s the flight 
security controller and he said that he and some of the guards had been observing some strange 
lights flying around the site around the launch control facility. He said they were acting very 
unusual just flying around, and I said, “You mean UFO? He said, well, he didn’t know what they 
were but they were lights and were flying around. They were not airplanes; they weren’t making 
any noise. They were not helicopters; they were making some very strange maneuvers and he 
couldn’t explain it. Well, I just kind of shook my head and said, “Call me if anything more 
important happens.” 


Basically we just ended the conversation. It wasn’t more than a few minutes- maybe a half 
hour later- and he calls back and this time he’s very frightened; I can tell by the tone of his voice 
he’s very shook up. He says, “Sir, there’s a glowing red object hovering right outside the front 




124 






gate — I’m looking at it right now. I’ve got all the men out here with their weapons drawn”. Of 
course he was very disturbed while he was telling me this; he was very excited. 


I didn’t know what to make of it but he wanted me to give him instructions or orders, tell him 
what to do. And I think I said something like, “Make sure the perimeter fence is secure.” Then 
right away he said, “I’ve got to go sir, one of these guards has been injured”, and he hung up. 


I immediately went over to my commander who was taking a nap — we have a little cot down 
there for rest periods — and I was telling him about the telephone call we just received. As I was 
relating this to him our missiles started shutting down one by one. By shutting down, I mean they 
went into a “no-go” condition meaning they could not be launched. So we get bells and whistles- 
a red light no-go condition. As I recalled at the time, it seemed like every one of them shut down 
but later in recalling this incident with my commander Mywald, he said he felt we only lost 
maybe seven or eight of these weapons. 


SG: Can you describe what these weapons were, for the record? 


RS: These weapons were Minuteman One missiles and were of course nuclear-tipped 


warhead missiles. As they started shutting down, immediately he gets up and we both start 
querying the status board. We’ve got the ability to query and determine what the cause of the 
shutdowns were. As I recall, most of them were guidance and control system failures. And then 
he started reporting to the command post. In the meantime I called upstairs to find out what the 
status was of this object and the guard said, well, the object has left - it just left at high speed. 
The injured guard was apparently trying to climb this barbed wire but it had nothing to do with 
the UFO firing anything or injuring this airman. I asked him what the object looked like and all 
he could say was that it was an oval shape glowing a reddish orange around the object. 


SG: How far away and what altitude was it? 


RS: Well, he said it was hovering right over the fence and that would have been within about 
30 feet from him. The fence was maybe eight feet high. 


There was also another incident that happened within a week of this, just after, where there 
were radar reports and quite a few more witnesses. 


[See the corroborating testimony of Lieutenant Colonel Arne Arneson] 


The Air Force did an extensive investigation of the entire incident and was not able to come 
up with a probable cause for the shutdowns. And I’ve got quite a few witnesses that will testify 
to that- we’ve got a couple of people who worked on the investigative team- and I’ve got 
correspondence from the man who actually organized the investigative team. There was no 
viable explanation for this [shutdown of multiple ICBMs]. Each missile is basically self- 
supporting. Most of them are powered by commercial power but each missile has its own power 
generator. 


The only connection between the capsule and the missile sites themselves is what we call 
SIN-lines or sensitive information network lines. They’re basically buried cables but inside the 
capsule itself and these lines go to the missiles directly. The missiles are not connected to each 
other so having a fault at one site would not affect missiles at another location. 




125 






At our site anywhere from six to eight went down but they went down in rapid succession 
which again is an extremely rare happening. We rarely had more than one missile go down for 
any reason at all. And this was very rare. Weather was ruled out. Like I said an extensive 
investigation was done and power surges were ruled out. There was only one possibility that was 
looked at by one of the Boeing engineers that did some test in the laboratory and he thought that 
some kind of an electromagnetic force or field might have caused the signal to go. But it would 
have had to go through the buried cable to each of these missiles. 


After I talked to my guard upstairs, my commander talked to the command post. When he 
finished talking to the command post he turned to me and said, “The same thing occurred at 
ECHO Flight.” ECHO Flight is another squadron. I’d say probably 50 - 60 miles away from our 
location but they had the same sort of thing happen. They had UFOs that were hovering, not at 
the launch control facility but at the actual launch facilities where the missiles are located. They 
had some maintenance and security people out there at the time and they observed the UFOs at 
those sites. Now they lost all ten of their weapons - all ten. 


SG: This is around the same time? 


RS: It was the same morning. So that morning we lost anywhere from between 16 to 18 
ICBMs at the same time UFOs were in the area and were observed by airmen. Those missiles 
were down the entire day because we’ve got testimony from Colonel Don Crawford, who 
relieved the crew at ECHO Flight and he was there when the missiles were being brought up to 
alert status and he said it took the whole day. So I’m assuming it took our missiles all day to be 
brought back up also. 


When we got relieved, I went upstairs and the first thing I did was look in the guard’s eye and 
say, “Hey, were you telling me the truth about this object?” He swore up and down he was 
telling the truth. I believed him for a couple of reasons. I knew he was frightened when he called 
me down there and then when I looked him in the eye and he told me about the situation I 
certainly believed him. 


I wrote up a report about this incident; it was in my log and I turned it in. When we got to the 
base we had to report to our squadron commander right away. And in that room with my 
squadron commander was a fellow from AFOSI (we had an Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations on the base). He was there in the office with the commander. He asked for my 
logs and he wanted a quick briefing although it seemed to me he knew pretty much what had 
happened already. But we gave him a quick briefing and then he asked us both to sign a non- 
disclosure agreement saying this was classified information- we were not to release this to 
anybody, and that was it. We couldn’t talk; he told us we could not talk about this to anyone, 
including any of the other crews, our spouses, our family, even amongst each other. 


That was the end of that. I was there at Malmstrom [phonetic sp] for another two years after 
that and in that time we were never given a de-briefing on any of the incidents- neither the ECHO 
incident or our own, which is very unusual because we got briefed every morning on any of the 
anomalies that were going on with the equipment. We got briefed and we discussed these 
technical issues that were going on with the weapons but we never heard anything else about 
these incidents. And these were major happenings. These were major happenings. 


I’ve got a copy of a telex which we received under FOIA coming from SAC headquarters and 
coming to Malstrom and other bases right after the morning that happened saying that this 
incident was of extreme concern to SAC headquarters because they couldn’t explain it. Nobody 




126 






could explain what happened. And yet we never got de-briefed. And we were cleared for very 
high classification because these are nuclear weapons we’re dealing with. 


We did get the security incursion alarms at those sites when the missile went down. That is 
unusual because usually when a missile went down for something like guidance failure, we 
wouldn’t get security incursion alarms, which means a perimeter is breached, an object crossed 
the fence, or something broke the security alarm system that we had on the perimeter of the 
launch facility. I did sent out guards to a couple of those facilities to investigate that. 


The reason I think this story is very significant is because, going back to August of 1966 at 
Minot, ND, a very similar thing happened at one of the launch control facilities at Minot Air 
Force Base. They had the same kind of weapon system that we had- they had M-l missiles. This 
[UFO] was observed on radar, there was some communication failure and the object was 
observed over the launch control facility. 


That happened in August 1966 and that’s a well documented incident. About a week prior to 
my incident, in March 1967, I’ve got a record of a call from one of the security guards who was 
out roaming looking at the launch facilities and saw an object very similar to what I just described 
over the launch facility. The commander reported it to command post. About a week to ten days 
after our incident, there’s a very well documented incident that happened at Malstrom. In this 
case, near Malstrom Air Force Base, a UFO was tracked by radar and was observed at relatively 
close range by a truck driver and highway patrolman. The Air Force did an investigation and 
there’s an extensive report on the Air Force investigation of this UFO sighting because it flew 
around the base and very close to the base. 


So this is a whole series of things that happened having to do with the same kind of weapon 
system, the Minuteman Missile. 


The reports that were made to me by my guards were official reports. These were not jokes - 
they were not meant to be anything but official reports because we were dealing with strategic 
weapons during the Cold War, during the Vietnam War. They were professional, these guards, 
and they were not about to joke about weapons being down, about what they were seeing. So 
these were not rumors, they were official reports. If they were recanted for any reason, these men 
should have been court-martialed for giving false reports during a very sensitive incident. And 
none of that happened. 


Bob Kominski headed up the organization to look at all aspects of these shutdowns. 
Kominski relates to me in writing that at some point he was told by his boss that the Air Force 
said, “Stop the investigation; do no more on this and in addition do not write a final report.” 
Again, this is very unusual especially in light of the fact that CINC-SAC headquarters was stating 
that this was of extreme importance to find out exactly what happened here. And yet, the head of 
the investigative team was told during the investigation to stop the investigation and not write a 
final report. 


I heard that many of the guards that reported this incident were sent off to Vietnam, as a 
matter of fact. I know for a fact - this I can attest to- that one of the guards that I sent out to the 
launch facilities and observed an object came back and was very shaken by the experience. And 
he was taken off guard duty from then on. He was sent somewhere else because he was too 
shaken by the experience. 


[See the official government documents regarding these and related UFO events at or near 
nuclear facilities. SG] 




127 






i ort 








nJFoKtn^ tj>* $ j y 


UNCLASSIFIED priority 


I 25&i? 13 21* ^ 




PTTU JAW RU*TFHA6257 0341255-uUUU~P. UEDFI A . 


ZNR UUUUU ZFH-1 RUV.'TFhA 
OE RUCSS3 1=5 0341225 
ZNR UUUUU 


P 251224Z WAR 67 .. 


FM 341SMW MALMSTROM 
TO RUWRNLB'/ADC ENT 
RUUMBOA/23 AO WALMSTROM 
RUEDF IA /FTP WRIGHT PATTERSON 
RUEDHOA/CSAF .ftASHlNSTON j . 


RUEDHOA/OSAF AASKINGTON 


UNCLAS ZIPPO 2414 WAR 67/SU3J! j PRELIMINARY UrO Rc-PO 








SHERIFF'S OFFICE. INVESTIGATION IS BEING CONDUCTED BY^ // 


LT COL LEVJIS CHASE PHONE! OUTV EXT 2215. HOME 452-1135 




i 


i. 




unclassified 




PRIORITY 




- 128 - 




a.4 




128 










BASE OPERATIONS OFFICER.. THE ALLEGED LANDING SITE IS 
UNDER SURVEILLANCE • HOWEVER DAYLIGHT IS REGUIRED FOR 
FURTHER SEARCH ' • 






PAGE 2' RUCSES 165 UNCLAS 


SHERIFF'S OFFICE v. ILL CONDUCT A LAND SEARCH AND A HELLICOPTER 
from MaLMSTROH AFB •.•.'ILL CONDUCT THE AIR SEARCH. FOLLOW-UP 
REPORT WILL ?.£ SUBMITTED AS DETAILS SECOVE ADVAILABLE. 


BT 


NNnN¥ 






UNCLASSIFIED 




PRIORITY 




- 129 - 








129 






Da te : 




DECLASSIFIED 
I AM EO I 2958 by EORT 


.1 6 JAN 1996 




fs JAW RU3;V>iV---Uv. :) i 35-S$SS»"Rin#830ft. •« 


BY SSSSS 


17225 & MAR ;■/; j 


FM SAC 


TV R UWM K 0A / 0 OA M A HILL r,A) UTAH 
INFO RtKBKBA/lP/:? ! 


auhiboa/sa is»y H^.afjrp.oc A>:vj..saJ*>: 


RiBralJAA/A iTF; 0 BOw'Lf&'W aKiYHi'lLE ViaSi 
R0UJABA/8SD SCSiOB j 


&T i 


SECRET D3 32752 KAR 67* 


ACTION; OC/uiA COOHCT/OOME-'GOi, DAVENFORT), INFO; iSAF 


(DH4C3 , 341SHW tDCSD, EOF IMG AffrlO <00 0 % DOWNEY, NX NUT EM AN ‘ " 


ENS1 UEER fN5TT5HP ILST, B3QH) 


S[|9JLC : i S Li o dS ui* biniMtuiv/ o iLvCiiu FLIGHT, KALSTRCH 


AFB. <U> : 


REF: MY SCRET MESSAGE DM73 02751, 17 MAS 67, SAME SUBJECT. 


ALL TEN MISSILES IN ECHO FLIGHT AT MALMS! ROM LOST STRAY ALERT WITHIN 
TEN SECONDS OF EACH OTHER* THIS INCIDENT OCCURRED AT 0S45L ON 
IS MARCH 67 . AS OF THIS DATE, ASS MISSILES HAVE BEEN RETURNED TO STRAT 






PAGE 2 RUCSAAAfsiSG S F. C RET, 


ALERT WITH NO APPARENT DIFFICULTY, INVESTIGATION AS TO THE CAUSE OF THE 
INCIDENT IS BEING CONDUCTED 3¥ MALM ST ROM TEAT, TWO FITTS HAVE 
BEEN RUN THROUGH TWO MISSILES THUS FAR, MO CONCLUSIONS HAVE BEEN 
DRAWN, THERE are INDICATIONS THAT BOTH COMPUTERS IN BOTH G<SC r S 
WERE UPSET MOMENTARILY, CAUSE OF TIE UPSET IS MOT KNOWN AT THIS 
TIME. ALL OTHER SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION AT THIS TIME IS CONTAINED IN 
ABOVE REFERENCED MESSAGE, 


FOR OOAMA. THE FACT THAT My APPAJ tS_MI REASON FOR _ XHE_LOSS_ C, L^L 


H T S SIl. K£L &jjulO jTO^ a^ NCFRNTC - aJI a 


HEAD QUAR TERS, WE MUST HAVE AN IN "DEPTH ANALYSIS TO DETERMINE CAUSE 
AND CORRECT tVE ACTION AMD WE MUST KNOW AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE WHAT 
THE IMPACT IS TO THE FLEET , IF I AMY, REQUEST YOUR RESPONSE BE IN KEEP- 
ING WITH THE URGENCY OF THE PROBLEM, WE IN TURN WILL PROVIDE OUR 
FULL COOPERATION AND SUPPORT, 


FOR OOAMA AND 15AF WS HAVE CONCURRED IN A BOEING REQUEST TO SEND 
TWO ENGINEERS, MR, R.E RISER! AMD MR, W. M. DUTTON TO MALM STROM 
TO COLLECT FIRST HAND KNOWLEDGE OF THE PROBLEM FOR POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE 
IN LATER ANALYSIS* REQUEST COOPERATION OF ALL CONCERNED TO PROVIDE 
THEM ACCESS TO AVAILABLE INFORMATIONS, I.E, 5 CREW COMMANDERS LOG 
ENTRIES,, MAINTENANCE FORMS,, IMjTERROGATXQN OF KNOWLEDGEABLE PEOPLE, ETC. 




PAGE 3 RUCSAAA0196 S E C R E Ti 


SECURITY CLEARANCES AND DATE AND TIME OF ARRIVAL WILL BE SENT FROM 
THE AFFRO BY SEPARATE MESSAGE. 


FOR 15AFc OOAMA HAS INDICATED 3T TELECOM THAT THEY ARE SENDING 
ADDITIONAL ENGINEERING SUPFORT* REQUEST YOUR COOPERATION TO INSURE 
MAXIMUM RESULTS ARE OBTAINED FROM THIS* EFFORT, GP74.-^ Cft3 yn C _ jJg« 


GROUP-4 


DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS: 
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS 




130 




130 








B)ffl%cOCT v" 




l 


*\ i 




THIS DOCUMENT RETAINS IT ORIGINAL 
CLASS I pi CAT I ON* THE ONLY PORTION 
OF THIS DOCUMENT CONSIDERED 
QELAsstr i 


PAGES: I ^tjZLd fflB 


vzesust/ww ! 


; n'u m rucsaaamss^ yaks* js-t&^-autfwycv; > 


#5H Y SSSSS 
? 17225 & HAR «? 


Ft? SAC . 


TV RU»HHHA/tfOA?SA MILL niV. UTAH 
INFO lUMBESA/tfSAP > 


/iUWH BQfl/J M»:< .fi&VRftiS >' Eli 


ttiSJTCbhk/piYr-iiG 'bijkM&'W'-.-v .vrn.F. uass? 


Rilv/ JAEA/B i-13 PATTOS 
ST 


SECRET 2>Ji 33738 *talt iV/,. 


ACTION: OCAGA CCuHCT/OWlK'UO?. DAMEMi C»:?A 1- , ifiFC-; IDaT 
CDKAC), 34iSHt> fnctpj, GOEXtlU ftFiRO DOWNEY, Klrtm'iHHtt 


ENaiHKSRi’KtiT'fSF?.' BS'5R> 


SUBJECT* LOSS 0? STRATEGIC ALERT, ECHO FLXCIIX, RALSTRCS 
AFBe <U5 i 




SCUSSffEB 
ED 1162 




. i . 




i 1 ) 




.■/. ■; ■■ ; 




-fv 






THIN 


&TIIAT 




')•(': •> } TT.t5 




PAGE 2 RUCSAAAS196 $ E 0 R E T 


ALERT WITH HO APPARENT DIFFICULTY* INVEST X3ATI0N AS TO THE CaUSE oy TV' 
INCIDENT IS BEING CONDUCED BY NALfe&TROtf TEAT. TWO KITTS HAVE 
BEEN RUM THROUGH TWO MISSILES THUS FAR* SO CONCLUSIONS HAVE SEEK 
DRAW Mo THERE ARE INDICATIONS THAT BOTH COMPUTERS IN BOTH G&C : S 
WERE UPSET MOMENTARILY* 'CAUSE OK THE UPSET IS MOT KNOWN AT THIS 
TIME* ALL OTHER SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION AT THIS TIME IS CONTAINED IN 
ABOVE REFERENCED HESSAGH. 


FOR OOAM A* THE FACT THAT 1)0 APPARENT REASON FOR THE LOSS OK YEN' 
MISSILES CAN BE RSAD& Y| ID 12 HI IF LED IS CAUSE FOR GRAVE CONCERN T< 
HEADQUARTERS* WE MUST HAVE AN IN "DEFT H ANALYSIS TO DETERMINE CAMS* 


AND CORRECTIVE ACTION AMD WE MUST KNOW AS SICKLY AS POSSIBLE WHAT 
THE IMPACT IS TO THE FLEET, XF AMY* REQUEST YOUR RESPONSE BE IK KEEP- 
ING wmi THE URGENCY OF T HE FHOBLS0* VE IN TURN WILL PROVIDE OUT. 


FULL COOPERATION AkD SUJWIRT. 


FOR OQAMA AND Vitf US H(|VE .CONCURRED IN A 80EI HQ REQUEST 7 0 DSHD 










REQUHS. ----- 


THEM ACCESS TO AVAILABLE INFORMATION, I*E* S CREW CQ9SHA&DERG 1.00 
ENTRIES, NAIMTENANCETORNSs, XMT ERR Oil AT 10 H OF KNOWLEDGEABLE PEOPLE.: 




PAGE 3 RUCSAAASf.DE S E C R E T . 


SECURITY CLEARANCES AND DATE AND TIME OF ARRIVAL WILL BE SEWi IRON 
THE AFFRO BY SEPARATE MESSAGE* 






BA 


&v 




' - ,31 




Bill! 






K 




131 




Testimony of Lt. Colonel Dwynne Arneson, US Air Force (retired) 


September 2000 




Lt. Col. Arneson spent 26 years in the USAF. Fie had an above top-secret SCI-TK 
(Special Compartmented Tango Kilo) clearance. Fie worked as a computer systems 
analyst for Boeing and was the Director of Logistics at Wright-Patterson AFB. At one 
point he was the cryptography officer for the entire Ramstein AFB in Germany and 
while there one day he received a classified message that said that a UFO had crashed 
in Spitsbergen Norway. While at Malmstrom AFB in Montana he again saw a message 
that said that a metallic circular UFO was seen hovering near the missile silos and that 
all the missiles went off-line so that they could not be launched. 


DA: Lt. Col. Dwyyne Arneson SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


DA: My name is Dwynne Arneson. I was bom in Rochester, Minnesota back in 1937, and 
went to Rochester Fligh School. From there I graduated and went on to St. Olaf College in 
Northfield, Minnesota where 1 got my degree in physics and math. Upon graduation, I competed 
for Officer’s Training School in the Air Force and then was selected to get a commission, went to 
Officer’s Training School, and was commissioned back in 1962. I went on to spend twenty-six 
years in the U.S. Air Force as a communication-electronics officer and retired in 1986. 1 had 
assignments all over the world, including Vietnam, Europe — you name it, I’ve probably been 
there. 


I held a top-secret SCI-TK clearance. That means Special Compartmented Tango Kilo 
information, which is above top secret, if you will. It takes a special investigation to get that sort 
of a clearance. Upon getting out of the Air Force, and retiring as a colonel in 1986, I applied for 
work at Boeing, and I came to work for Boeing as a computer systems analyst, and I’ve been 
working since 1987 in that capacity with Boeing. I retired in 1986 as Director of Logistics at 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 


I had various opportunities to see things that come through my perusal. One instance was 
back in 1962 when I was a lieutenant at Ramstein Air Force Base in Germany. I was the crypto 
officer for the entire Ramstein Air Base. I was a top-secret control officer. And in that capacity, 
I happened to see a classified message go through my com center, which said that "A UFO has 
crashed on the Island of Spitsbergen, Norway, and a team of scientists are coming to investigate 
it." 




I do not recall where the message came from, where it was going to, because in that capacity 
we were oftentimes told, "What you see here, leave here." But I can recall seeing that. 


The next thing that comes to mind is one that took place in 1967. I was in charge of the 
Communication Center, the Twentieth Air Division at Malmstrom Air Force Base, Montana. I 
was again the top-secret control officer there. I dispatched all the nuclear launch authentications 
to the SAC missile crews, so — I had a very good top-secret background. 


One day, I happened to see a message that came through my communications center. There 
again, I cannot quote the date, where it came from, where it was going to, but I do recall reading 
it and seeing it. It said, basically, that "A UFO was seen near missile silos”... and it was 




132 






hovering. It said that the crew going on duty and the crew coming off duty all saw the UFO just 
hovering in mid-air. It was a metallic circular object and from what I understand, the missiles 
were all shut down. 


And then later on, years later while working here at Boeing, I heard from a man named. Bob 
Kaminisky, who had retired from Boeing and he said, "Yes, I was the engineer assigned by 
Boeing to come up and check out the missiles to make certain that they in fact had not gone down 
upon their own." And he said, "I gave them a complete bill of health." And I worked for Bob in 
Boeing and I was a good friend of his. 


Even before he passed away, we had many, many conversations on this subject, and he was 
just a very incredible man. 


[See the testimony of Capt. Robert Salas regarding these ICBM missile events at Malmstrom 
AFB. SGJ 


What I mean by "missiles going down," is that they went dead. And something turned those 
missiles off, and so they could not be put in a mode for launching. 


At another time, when I was Commander of a radar squadron up in Maine, at Caswell Air 
Force Station, Maine, we were right next door to Loring Air Force Base. It was where they 
launch the B-52s and the KC tankers and things like that. I had a lot of security friends over there 
at Loring who told me about UFOs hovering near the nuclear weapon storage area on Loring Air 
Force Base. 


[This corroborates the testimony of Lieutenant Colonel Joe Wojtecki. See that testimony 
regarding a significant event at Loriing AFB. SG] 


A little bit of background, not to belabor the point, but — when I was assigned as Director of 
Logistics at Wright-Patterson, I left the wife and kids back in Oklahoma City. It was my 
daughter’s last year of high school, so I went out there on my own for about a year. And in the 
search for an apartment out there, I came across this lady, Chris Weedon by name, who had a 
little five-acre English manor outside of Dayton. She had three rooms for rent, three bedroom s . 
So I rented one, and I kind of became her son. I helped her cut the grass, I mowed the lawn, etc. 
She was up in her seventies. 


Her husband was a Lieutenant Colonel Spencer Weedon. Now, he died about twelve years 
prior to that, and from everybody that I met, they said he was just a brilliant guy. He had a 
photographic mind, and he was one of the lead investigators of UFOs at Wright-Patterson. In fact 
I have a tape at home, produced back in the 1950s, of a debate between Spencer Weedon and that 
Major Donald Keyhoe. It was done in the Armstrong Circle Theater. So he was her husband. 


The one person I happened to meet and took quite a shine to, and he to me, was a Dr. Adolph 
Raum. Now, he at that time was eighty-three years old. I think he has since died. One night 
after supper and after a few martinis, I jokingly asked Adolph, "What do you know about the little 
gray men that are supposedly on ice here at Wright-Patterson?" And I distinctly recall his face 
turning ashen white, his voice got very stem, and he said, "Arne," he says, "all I can tell you is 
that they were not weather balloons, and we will not talk about it again. Do you understand?" 
And there was no uncertainty in my mind that we wouldn’t talk about this further. He was from 
Switzerland originally. He was on the first A-Bomb test in the U.S. and he knew Dr. 
Oppenheimer personally. Even though I had a top-secret clearance, there were areas that we just 




133 






couldn’t get near, and we just could not find anything about some of these areas at Wright- 
Patterson that may have held some bodies or — who knows what they held? And a lot of my 
technicians that worked for me as a communication electronics officer; would tell stories about 
objects going across their radar screens at fantastic speeds. Nothing we had could go that fast. 


SG: What years would this have been? 


DA: Well, this was back in the mid-seventies when I had that radar squadron commander’s 
job at Caswell Air Force Station, Maine. That’s when these technicians would tell me about 
events like that. 


As a commander of a radar squadron, you have people who are operational types as well as 
the people who are the technician types, who actually maintain the radars. In fact, in that 
capacity, we would take and have battle exercises. We were the only radar squadron in the U.S. 
under operational control of the Canadian NORAD Division. Now, you’d see the B-52s coming 
down from Canada, the fighter interceptors being directed against them, or whatnot. So these 
men knew how fast things were flying. They knew the speed of bombers. They knew the speed 
of the current fighter force that we had. The radar technicians I had, the maintenance men 
working for me — they were in the position to say, " Y es, that scope was in A- 1 condition — or the 
radar is in A-l condition." So things could check out. The experience of the operational types, 
the experience of the maintenance guys — they confirmed that the system was operating perfectly. 
And they said, "That thing is going two or three thousand miles an hour." I heard it from 
different sources that related similar events at different radar stations throughout the U.S., not just 
at Caswell Air Force Station. We had radar stations back in those days all over the U.S. and 
stories like that are not uncommon at all. 


If you think about it, all this vast universe we have, if we’re the only intelligent life here, God 
has sure got bad judgment. . . 




134 






Testimony of Professor Robert Jacobs, Lt. US Air Force 


November 2000 




Professor Jacobs is a respected professor at a major US university. In the 1960’s he 
was in the Air Force. He was the officer in charge of optical instrumentation and his job 
was to film ballistic missile tests launched from Vandenberg Air Force base in 
California. In 1964, during a test of the first missile they filmed, they caught on film a 
UFO traveling right next to the missile. He says it looked like two saucers cupped 
together with a round ping-pong ball like surface on top. The film showed that from the 
ball a beam of light was directed at the missile. This happened four times, from four 
different angles, as the missile was about 60 miles up and traveling at 11,000 to 14,000 
miles an hour. The missile tumbled out of space and the UFO left. The next day he 
was shown the film by his commanding officer and was told to never speak of this 
again. He said, if it ever comes up you are to say that it was laser strikes from the UFO. 
Professor Jacobs thought this unusual because in 1964 lasers were in their infancy in the 
labs but he never the less agreed and hasn’t talked about it for 18 years. Years later, 
after an article came out about the film, professor Jacobs started receiving harassing 
phone calls at early hours in the morning. His mailbox was even blown up out in front 
of his house. 




What we photographed up at Vandenberg Air Force Base affected me for the rest of my life 
and made a huge impact on my understanding of the universe and of Governmental manipulation 
of our minds. 


The background of this event is that we were testing ballistic missiles that were to deliver 
nuclear weapons on target. That’s what they were there for. We weren’t launching real nuclear 
weapons we were launching dummy warheads. They were the exact size, shape, dimension and 
weight of a nuclear warhead. I was the officer in charge of optical instrumentation at 
Vandenburg Air Force Base in the 1369 th photo squadron and as such it was my duty to supervise 
the instrumentation photography of every missile that went down in that western test range. In 
those days we called them ICBM’s, inter-county ballistic missiles, because most of them blew up 
on launch. And our job was to determine why they blew up, to provide the engineers good 
engineering sequential photography so that they could see what was wrong with the burners that 
took off in flight. For my achievement in setting up the photographic station to track these tests I 
was awarded the Air Force Guided Missile insignia. I was the first photographer in the Air Force 
to get the Missile Badge and it was a highly coveted thing at the time. 


The incident was definitely in 1964 because Major Mansmann confirmed that; he had written 
it down and knew the exact date of it. 


They counted down the missile and we heard engine ignition lift-off so we knew the missile 
was underway. We were looking down south, southwest, and the missile popped up through the 
fog. It was just beautiful and I hollered, there it is. Our guys on our M45 tracking mount with a 
180-inch lens on it filmed the missile. And the big BU telescope swung over and got it and we 
followed the thing. And sure enough we could see all three stages of powered flight boosters, 
they burned out and dropped away. And then of course, to our naked eye all we saw was a smoke 
trail going off into subspace as it headed off towards its target which was an island in the Pacific. 
Well, that was our first filming of a launch and we got it. 




135 






We sent the film back down to the base and- I don’t know exactly how long it was after the 
event, it might have been a day or two- I was called into Major Mansmann’s office at the First 
Strategic Aerospace Division Headquarters. I walked into his office and they had a screen and a 
16mm projector set up. There was a couch and Major Mansmann said sit down. And there were 
two guys in gray suits, civilian clothes, which was fairly unusual. Major Mansmann said watch 
this and turned on the film projector. I watched the screen and there was the launch from the day 
or two before. 


It was quite exciting. Because of the length of the telescope, as the Atlas missile entered the 
frame we could see the whole third stage. That was pretty exciting optics. We watched that stage 
burnout. We watched the second stage burnout. We watched the third stage burnout. And then 
on that telescope we could see the dummy warhead. It’s flying along and into the frame came 
something else. It flew into the frame like and it shot a beam of light at the warhead. 


Now remember, all this stuff is flying at several thousand miles an hour. So this thing [UFO] 
fires a beam of light at the warhead, hits it and then it [the UFO] moves to the other side and fires 
another beam of light, then moves again and fires another beam of light, then goes down and fires 
another beam of light, and then flies out the way it came in. And the warhead tumbles out of 
space. The object, the points of light that we saw, the warhead and so forth, were traveling 
through subspace about 60 miles straight up. And they were going somewhere in the 
neighborhood of 1 1,000 to 14,000 miles an hour when this UFO caught up to them, flew in, flew 
around them, and flew back out. 


Now, I saw that! I don’t give a Goddamn what anybody else says about it. I saw that on 
film! I was there! 


Now when the lights came on, Major Mansmann turned around looked at me and said, were 
you guys screwing around up there? And I said, no sir. And he said, what was that? And I said, 
it looks to me like we got a UFO. Now the thing that we saw, this object that flew in, was 
circular, was shaped like two saucers cupped together with a ping-pong ball on top. The beam of 
light came out of the ping-pong ball. That’s what I saw on film. 


Now Major Mansmann said to me after some discussion about it, you are never to speak of 
this again. As far as you are concerned, this never happened. And he said, I don’t need to 
emphasize the dire consequences of a security breach, do I? I said, no sir. And he said, fine. 
This never happened. As I started for the door, he said, wait a minute. He said, years from now 
if you are ever forced by someone to talk about this, you are to tell them it was laser strikes, laser 
tracking strikes. 


Well, in 1964 we didn’t have any laser tracking strikes. We didn’t have any laser tracking at 
all. Lasers were in their infancy in 1964. They were little playthings in laboratories. So I said, 
yes sir, and walked out and that was the last I talked about it for 18 years. 


I didn’t talk about it to anybody at Vandenburg Air Force Base, nobody in my squadron knew 
about it. Nobody saw the film but me. My Commanding Officer Major Lewis S. Clement, Jr. 
didn’t see it. My Operations Officer Captain Kenneth R. Callahan didn’t see it. His assistant 
Lieutenant Ronald O. Baylor didn’t see it. Their assistant, Chief Ward Officer Spooner didn’t see 
it. Nobody in my squadron saw it. And I didn’t talk about it to anybody under direct orders from 
Major Florence J. Mansmann, Jr. Consequently no one at Vandenburg that I know of knows 
anything about this. 




136 






That sounds real suspicious doesn’t it? Somebody should have seen it. Somebody should 
have talked about it. Well, they didn’t because in those days, I didn’t talk about top-secret things 
that I was told not to talk about. There are things that I know about that I did in the service that I 
won’t talk about to you now because they are top-secret and I could get my ass in trouble for 
talking about them. 


After 18 years it occurred to me that I could talk about this one incident because nobody ever 
told me it was classified top-secret. If you parse what Major Mansmann said, he said, you are to 
say this never happened. Well, that’s not classifying it top-secret, is it? That’s why I felt free to 
talk about it. It’s not a secondhand story. Thi s happened to me. And I was a part of a United 
States Air Force cover-up for 1 8 years. 


After an article [came out about the incident], the shit hit the fan! I started being harassed at 
work. I started getting odd telephone calls that would come during the day. At night, at my 
house I would get telephone calls- all night long sometimes 3:00 in the morning, 4:00 in the 
morning, midnight, 10:00, people would call and start screaming at me. You are going down 
motherfucker! You are going down mother fucker! And that’s all they would say. And they’d 
keep screaming that until I finally hung up the phone. 


One night somebody blew up my mail box by putting a big load of skyrockets in it. The 
mailbox went up in flames. And that night at 1 :00 in the morning the phone rang. I picked it up 
and somebody said, skyrockets in your box at night, oh what a beautiful sight, mother fucker! 


And things like that have happened on and off since 1982. I told you that since this History 
Channel thing came up and since you’ve started asking questions and this thing is in the wind 
again, I’m starting to get telephone calls again. My wife and I get phone calls out here in 


nowhere { } where we’ve retreated out to our farm. And it’s strange - They don’t say 


anything. You pick up the phone and say hello, hello, and there’s a hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm, 
click. It’s disconcerting. But I’ve learned to not give a flip. I just don’t care anymore. What are 
they going to do kill me? What are they going to do discredit me? Are they going to do any 
more than Philip Klass has already done to me? Are they going to make me look foolish? That’s 
about all they can do. 


I believe this nutty fringe around UFO’s is part of a concerted effort to keep serious study of 
it down. Anytime anybody tries to study this subject seriously, we are subject to ridicule. I’m a 
full professor at a relatively major university. And I’m certain that my colleagues at the 
university laugh at me and hoot and holler behind my back when they hear that I have an interest 
in studying unidentified flying objects- and that’s just one of the things that we have to live with. 


The Air Force denied everything. Was I in the Air Force? The Air Force denied it. Was I 
ever at Vandenburg? Well of course I couldn’t be because if I wasn’t in the Air Force how could 
I have been at Vandenburg? Did I put a tracking site up along the California coast? No, there 
was no tracking site in California. Which is a crock! The tracking site is still there right where I 
put it. And they use it to show you every time the space shuttle lands in California- that’s where 
you first see it from. And they are still photographing missiles from Vandenburg from that 
tracking site. 


At any rate, to corroborate my story, Lee Graham tracked down Florence J. Mansmann, Jr., 
the same Major who had ordered me to shut-up about it and he was now a Ph.D. at Stanford and a 




137 






rancher in Fresno, California. And he wrote back to Lee saying everything Bob said in his story 
is absolutely true. 


Fie corroborated my story and he continued to do that year after year, every time somebody 
brought it up, every time somebody would contact him he corroborated my story by saying, yes, 
that’s exactly what happened. It takes a lot of guts to do that. I became a fan of Sonny’s 
[Mansmann]; he is now deceased. He was my hero for a while. 


I wasn’t in the room at the time but what happened to the film is an interesting story in itself 
as Major Mansmann related to me and other people. Some time after I had gone, the guys in 
civilian clothes- 1 thought it was the CIA but he said no, it wasn’t the CIA, it was somebody else- 
took the film and they spooled off the part that had the UFO on it and they took a pair of scissors 
and cut it off. They put that on a separate reel. They put it in their briefcase. They handed Major 
Mansmann back the rest of the film and said here, I don’t need to remind you Major of the 
severity of a security breach; we’ll consider this incident closed. And they walked off with the 
film. Major Mansmann never saw it again. 


And as far as I’m concerned nobody else ever saw it again certainly not at Vandenburg. I’m 
certain that it left Vandenburg and went somewhere else. Major Mansmann, who’s a very good 
reader of film, said it must have been extraterrestrial. They assumed that the beam of light that 
struck the dummy warhead was some sort of plasma beam because it looked like a plasma beam. 


Major Mansmann was a man of great honor and great scientific standing in the community. 
For him to corroborate it is good enough for me. Even if I didn’t believe myself, I would believe 
Major Mansmann. 


So there were two of us who were Air Force Officers at the time and we saw something and 
we both corroborated with each other that we saw it. And what I have to ask skeptics or people 
who disbelieve what I’m saying is why would I make this up? Why would Major (and Doctor) 
Mansmann make it up? What have we to gain? I’ve got nothing but pain and suffering out of it, 
out of talking about it. I’ve been harassed at my home. This was used against me, partially in 
losing a job once in teaching. I’ve had a hell of a time after I’ve told this story but I continue to 
tell the story because I think it is important for people to understand that this sort of shit goes on 
in the Government. That the Government covers up information that we are entitled to know 
about as citizens of this country. That’s why I tell my story. That’s why I’m telling it to you. 


Now, I’ll continue to tell it as long as I’m alive. And I’ll always tell it the same way because 
it only happened one way. I never vary the story because I can’t; it’s the truth. And I’ve been the 
subject of humiliating letters and phone calls from skeptics like James O’Berg at NASA and 
Phillip J. Klass, who’s a paid informant of the United States Government who persisted in 
belittling me. And that’s fine if they want to belittle me but don’t belittle Sonny Mansmann! 


The Air Force’s position right now is there was no such incident and there was no film of it. 


The thing that’s important to me about this whole operation is very simply this: the biggest 
event in the history of humankind is the discovery that we are not alone, that there are other living 
entities- intelligent entities- in this universe and that we aren’t here alone. That’s a huge, 
enormous discovery. It’s the discovery of the lifetime of humankind, isn’t it, to find out that 
we’re not here alone? That’s why I think it is important to talk about these things. I think that’s 
exciting. And I think that it’s important for us as humans to come to terms, to grow-up and 
recognize that we may not be the paragon of animals after all. That there may be something out 




138 






there that’s bigger and more exciting than we are. And that just maybe, just maybe they are 
telling us something. 


Because what I saw that day was something shooting down a dummy nuclear warhead. What 
message would I interpret from that? Don’t mess with nuclear warheads. That’s probably the 
message I would interpret from that. Maybe somebody doesn’t want us annihilating Moscow; 
maybe we should stop doing that. 


[I have interviewed many military officers who have reached the same conclusion after 
extraterrestrial vehicles have appeared at nuclear facilities: Maybe others have evolved to the 
point of interstellar travel and know how dangerous these weapons are and understand their use 
would end our civilization. And they certainly do not want us going into space with such 
weapons. SG] 


Ronald Reagan one night went on television and did a most astonishing thing: He stood up in 
front of America and said we are going to build a defensive shield, we are going to call it SDI, the 
strategic defense initiative, and its mission is going to be to protect us, to protect all of us. Ronald 
Reagan said we are going to share this with everybody. We are going to share it with the 
Russians- our enemies, the guys that only a few years ago we were pretending to annihilate. Now 
suddenly we are going to protect them with a shield. From who are we going to protect them? 


Perhaps that was the first shot across the bow, the first warning shot from somebody saying, 
knock this off kids it’s time to grow-up. You don’t want to annihilate this planet, do you? Could 
be... 


The information I’ve just given you about my take on what happened there is based on not 
only my own speculation but having read other things and talked to other people over the 
intervening years. Perhaps our paranoia is unfounded and if we encounter beings with superior 
technologies maybe we should embrace them and be nice to them because they might be showing 
us how to survive. 




139 






MANSMANN RANCH 
5716 E. Jensen Avenue 
Fresno, CA 93725 




May 6, 1987 




■ f. 




Dear 


A reoccurence of cancer, a very bad farming situation and the 
resultant financial problems that needed immediate attention, pre- 
cluded the possibility of my involvement in any but priority duties. 
Therefore, your July 30, 1986, letter is in a box with many others 
that need to be addressed, researched, answered and sent. 


I am still in the midst of this battle, so my reply will be short. 


The events you are familiar with had to have happened as stated 
by both Bob Jacobs and myself because the statement made from each 
ofus after 17 years matched. What was on the film was seen only 
twice by Bob Jacobs, once in Film Quality Control and once in my 
office at,, the CIA attended showing. I saw it four times. Once in 
my dwn quality control review and editing for the General and his 
sCa ff; once in review with the Chief Scientist and his assistant; 
once for the Commanding General with only one of his staff; and the 
fourth time with the Chief Scientist, his assistant, the three govern- 
ment men and Bob Jacobs. 




I ordered Lt. Jacobs not to discuss what he saw with anyone because 
of the nature of the launch, the failure of the launch mission and 
the probability that the optical instrumentation (the film) showed 
an interferance with normal launch patterns. Now for your questions: 




1. The object ‘was saucer-shaped. (Dome? Don't remember.) 


2. Do not know the names of the CIA personnel. 


2' 9 r 'A?„ aBS j mpt i ons from the seriousness of the situation. 


during the^crleninv^ 0 y isc ^ ss an ? ° f what was seen discussed 
instrumentation 1 ° nly P? ssed m y order, as the ranking optical 


else involved * ficer, on to Lieutenant Jacobs. There was no one 


i evei f sicned S o,^ e a-2 ele v Sed fr £“ our archives without a signature. 
General' soffi?* fll “ when we had launch showings to VIPs in the 
*he Chief Scien2i22 short ,? oti «- However, I released the film to 
6. The trticl't^i t -v Ve £ ^4 sl S nat ure, then they departed. 


'de by bother Jacobs^nd^ 6 * ?2 d 0MNI , on m y P art and the statements 
Tredto that In "a 1' v myself were factual. The statements you 


Him and that 2he rL^t C did P K-^ n SSid > there nothing on 
'«ns the film ^ hl ‘ tar S et '” ®akii no sente. 


't s arp s a Y a ilable and the records of the launch and 


*:ed launch ^ * f th( r Air Force spokesman did review 


nertt?uat-t2 d no ? h 1 ±n g. ^ could not have been the 


uated such quick security action. 




140 - 




(continued next page) 




140 






Page 2 - T. Scott Crain, Jr. - 5/6/87 




7, Further? If the government wishes to withold such vital information 
which most certainly relates to our basis Star Wars research, then 
this information must be protected. 


Working in special projects my entire Air Force career from the 
earliest airborne radar in WWII, Air Defense Systems during the 
Korean War, Airborne Reconnaissance Ssytems during the Cold War, 


Photo computerized systems of unprecedented utilization and intelligence 
fathering during the Vietnam conflict, (therefore a veteran of four 
wars and more combat area time than most) , I may be over protective 
of our security. 


I can only say in regard to your research that in all my activities 
to date, indications point to one fact... the information gathered 
from space is very favorable to our side. 




Sincerely yours. 




F. J. Mansmann, ScD. 








Testimony of Colonel Ross Dedrickson, US Air Force (ret.)/AEC 


September 2000 




Colonel Dedrickson is a retired Colonel from the USAF. Fie went to Stanford business 
school where he studied management. Back in the 50’s part of his responsibilities 
included maintaining the inventory of the nuclear weapon stockpile for the AEC and 
accompanying security teams checking out the security of the weapons. Many reports 
kept coming in that UFOs were seen at various nuclear storage facilities and some of 
the manufacturing plants. Fie has seen them himself many times and was present when 
the famous fly-over over the Capital happened in July of 1952. At that incident he 
recalls seeing nine illuminated disc-type craft. Fie also tells of at least two occasions 
where extraterrestrials destroyed nuclear weapons headed out to space, one heading to 
the moon to be detonated for tests. It was destroyed because “nuclear weapons in space 
. . . were not acceptable to the extraterrestrials. . .” 


RD: Col. Ross Dedrickson SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


RD: ... While I was at the AEC in 1952, I had my first incident with UFOs which was in 
mid July when they flew over Washington, D. C. I saw my first nine UFOs. . . 


I was a staff officer for the military liaison committee between the chairman of the AEC and 
the Secretary of Defense. I became acquainted with not only the Army, Navy, and Air Force, but 
civilian agencies, the CIA, the National Security Agency, and other contacts which I developed. 
During that period of time one of my functions was to accompany a security team which visited 
all of the nuclear facilities to check on the security of weapons. And we were getting reports of 
visits by UFOs over the storage facilities and even some of the manufacturing facilities. And that 
went on continuously. . . 


And so, then after that siege which went through the entire ‘50s, I was assigned to the Unified 
Command under Admiral Felt during the ‘60s. I was the officer in charge of the Alternate 
command post involved with nuclear weapons operation planning. During that period of time, I 
maintained contacts with NORAD, with the SAC operations, and was involved with operational 
plans for the use of nuclear weapons. And during this period of time, I also learned of a number 
of incidents which happened involving UFOs. And then further on I finally retired from the Air 
Force and joined the Boeing Company where I was assigned to the Minute Man program where I 
was responsible for the accounting of all the nuclear fleet, the Minute Man One, Two, and Three. 
And during that period of time, I also learned about incidents involving nuclear weapons. And 
among these incidents were those where a couple of nuclear weapons that were sent into space 
were destroyed by the extraterrestrials. . . 


SG: Were over-flights of nuclear facilities taken seriously? 


RD: Oh yes. Oh yes indeed. In fact, they were taken so seriously that the observers would 
often not report them because it involved so much bureaucracy and protocol, and et cetera. They 
deliberately would not report them. On most of those cases where the UFOs became identified at 
least on a radar or with reports, why, they would try to scramble aircraft to intercept them. It was 
a very aggressive, you might say, response from our own government. Well, there was one 
incident when we exploded a nuclear weapon over the Pacific and this was in about ‘611 believe. 




142 






The consternation that it caused [from the ETs] was because it shut out communications over the 
Pacific basin for a number of hours in which no radio transmission was available at any time. 
And this was very significant. And of course this was one that the extraterrestrials were really 
concerned about because it affected our ionosphere. In fact, the ET spacecraft were unable to 
operate because of the pollution in the magnetic field which they depended upon. It was my 
understanding that in either the very end of the ‘70s or the early ‘80s that we attempted to put a 
nuclear weapon on the Moon and explode it for scientific measurements and other things which 
was not acceptable to the extraterrestrials. 


SG: And what happened? 


RD: The ETs destroyed the weapon as it went toward the Moon. The idea of any explosion 
of a nuclear weapon in space by any Earth government was not acceptable to the extraterrestrials 
and that has been demonstrated over and over. 


SG: How was that demonstrated? 


RD: By the destruction of any nuclear weapon sent into space. . . . 


And then later on our visits to Los Alamos and Livermore we found that people were 
interested in the extraterrestrial technology, very much so. 


SG: Did those conversations indicate that there were materials of extraterrestrial origin that 
were being studied? 


RD: Oh yes. Oh yes. In fact, that was the time when Area 5 1 became notorious. . . 




143 




















IMP^tW)^ 




'MK- ■•»••• • "" ■'■ ■:■/ ,w. I’vfe*- ■ ji’ 3 


A Ajfi® X‘ • } '{ ^flH|1‘> J ' . j| 


fifigBliSp 




w*%Md 




y V* k 












.•IPSHlKwi#©*' 
















'Nfiw 




' 




?^V'. - *v»V ^ 










frr iff’ jtl'tf'-; ' WiifpjwWpi 








• ;• . . ■ ... _ 






144 










COMKUKIW-UlUii*-''”'*” • - ' J . 


O 4 ^SaSSSii ! 


Teletype r, 




* * V> ‘*Z‘r~ 5" . 


CAtT^S 




r „ * . 12-3-50 A-A7 PM ... GAR - / X^ 


FBI WASHINGTON DC • •_• • »« 5 Vff 


, „ vwftYVTLUE *• URGENT • /. '* ^ *.1 


^oSV^Tir'iED «ucnx objects owe. oar |‘ 




DETECflONW'llHIOEHTiriED HJCKI OBJECTS »»E« w ■ •» jfl 


” TBST.EEBT.OBB. REURTEL BECEBBER EOBR EAST If 


B.B.R JABBIBC »T OAK ft.OCE. ARRABCEBEBTS SHOUEB BE 5° ■£ ?? |i 


EADAK J«*r TOMT7ATI0N OF PARTICLES ;• t, 




AEE FACTS COBCERBIBC POSSIBEE RABAR JABBIBC BY I0B1ZATI0H ° F __ , I. | \ 


» ATOXXX ATBOSRKERE. COBBUCT APPROPRIATE Z - I 


whether ibcidebt occurr.bc bortheast-of oei.er SPR.BCS, tebbesbe , 


COWIB^HAVE HAD ABY COBBECT.OH WITH ALEECEB RABAR JABBIBC. SUTEE f/ | 


IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS. ^ V § \ ‘ 


>■ * HOOVER \ 


-- • 




CORRECT LAST WORD FIRST LINE PLS 


PROTECTION n •• 


.. , „ J>. r ,.y Uhl 


ok'd tbmcx OLO 1 




;...«5CW)EC-S0 - w"'4‘A ; .'V 












145 






J'T'om dh. ($(v.e M ttnxh'l* 




Coraondiag Officer 
AF Cambridge Besearch Laboratory 
Atta: Bise_Dlrectorats, Gecpbys: 


230 Alba V St., 


Cnabridg;, Massachusetts 




■ 1. Per request of Ur. A. Qs Klrarcbi, durlos J^ent visit 
to tbio base, tbo following inf orm at jma. l a Bubalt toq ,,,.. 


2 ‘. sighting* were made Aprll)in$^g | f*M* y 19 5&-" . 


aerial phenomena during nam ing dayl l6btfno>aa-AA-e*bff^a 
rhe sightings vere made by rSau- AlfTlnc . , peraonnel while • ■ 


engaged in trackinj regular projects with Askanla Photo-, 
theodolites. It bin been reported that objects ere sighted 
la acme number; as many as eight have been visible at ° n ® 
rhe individuals mating these sightings ore professional observers 
therefore I would -ate their rellalblllty -superior. .In both .j. 
cases photos were taken with Askanlas. • ; ; s 1 T. 1 Vi*'-/ 


-*j- 3. The B^vtn aan A F Base Data Reduction Unit analy ed the' 


27 April pictures md made a report, a copy of which I am . 
enclosing .with the film for your information. It was believed 
that triangulation could be effected from pictures taken on 
24 Ray because pictures were taken from two stations. The 
films vere rapidly processed and examined by D »ta Reduction. < 
However, It was determined that sightings were made on two 
different objects md triangulation could not je effected-,* 
r^wtTft'OO Data R eduction and the films from the sighting aro 
enclosed; ...... 


4. There is mthiDg further to report at tbia,tlma. . : ' 


*. v. ■ ■ 


I* Idols: 1 / f vt -V;. t • _ 


^Incl jfl-fiats "Sed Rpt #1 '* ' W . V^M * ' \' ^T" - ' 


•Incl #2-J«ta Red Report #2 . AM ,\ C - \ 


g -Ihcl P-lO, 2h Kay 50 /] . / U \ °_ \ 


T -film, P- 1, 2fc Hay 50 vy • 'f Vj P T V 


& v, t-SUm, P- LO, 27 Apr -50 ° 0l '' W CK>i, . .• A' SI N 


J&l I^Kap of HOT Range Z>B CU^,L\ !* .* 




146 










flillltif 








C V i r'' ' . .*• Accord lug, to conversation between Col. Bayne* and Cant Wnt 


following information la submitted directly to Lt/Albert. ^ " ^ ryMt * 016 


i anei^«*s ftroa pl ° v «- a »W resulting in aslnuth and elevation- 


■I . Sfrecor^f . ree0rded “ 5 OUr ° bJeC “* In “**««* •«» of i^e on ?i£" 


-■ : ' -- 


]t.' . ./* .*"» thla information, together vith a single ailnuth oj«le fm, 


f r*. • etation H7 , ihe following conclusions were drawn: •• • . 


• *• 7130 objects were at an altitude of approximately 150,000 feet. 


- juXnrosa P ^:?* 0 ol>Ject ' , vfcro oyer Holloman, range between the bate and 


'* .»« ' i.- •- ■' « 


*. c * Thc objects wero approximately 30 feet in diameter, '• 




J i .^apeed 


T$. • 




d. The objects were traveling at an undeterminable/ yet high 




TOS® L.’ MITCHELL WW/rd 


' . " Mathematician ext 172 


■ . . ’ * . Data Seduction Unit " •’ ' 


lw»ta'wnv.ad»i«ilieWhU*S.n.U Pawliwt . ---------- - - “■ - - 


tterssr 2»srt?sr^ . •, eoer&r ^ 


^ISMjSU-Ur afwr ■ ipu-ilc n> Sral and W - *•.« . • 


U*c *usvM|aJicrc -end fallcM. MMMcottc apoiutl au . . 


** hkj. thmUOius vox lv«*4-tl ui> by an • ' . •' * * .. . •* •.* 


ACa ti */“* * CTCra| * u ‘*° 4 ** wre iouniAeii to try * Q * , * 




4C®. situ tcvrral UalwMu were iaiuwteil to try 
o-UnlofiunMclj ool, «.* omen hid tU«. Tbe- .*•;■.• v ^, 


•cd a wuudj y. d, a otjeu. I— I wrjr wcU dcSnnl i J* >•-. . 'i-3: . 


«• •• - -«.vO.Jd -V* ’- i- • ' 




•c. 




'x®CUSSi«ED Ai t:\-4\i VpAV-V 1 ^’' ‘ 
DOJO DIR ;■ 




i-to- 


la - 




. UNCI^SSJFJgf> •• 




,4?v 


•iif 


•Mi 




147 








Testimony of Harry Allen Jordan, US Navy 


November 2000 




Mr. Jordan spent 6 and a half years in the US Navy and was a radar operator on the 
USS Roosevelt in 1962. Trained in operations intelligence, he has a classified 
clearance and also worked in electronic countermeasures. He testifies that as a radar 
operator on the Roosevelt, he had a radar contact with a huge object above 65,000 feet 
traveling at about 1,000 knots. The Captain launched two Phantom-2 aircraft to 
investigate. As the Phantoms approached the UFO, it disappeared and about half an 
hour later it re-appeared but this time closer to the ship. He described the intimidation 
which followed the event. He later found out that in the prior year the Roosevelt had a 
huge UFO event that was photographed where people saw a saucer descend from the 
clouds. This happened more frequently after the Roosevelt took on nuclear weapons. 
Many years after Mr. Jordan was discharged from the Navy, he says that he was 
listening in on his HAM radio to the Space Shuttle STS 48 communications when he 
heard them speaking about seeing an alien spacecraft. He describes the harassment 
which followed after it was known what he had heard. 


. . .Anyway, I was on mid-watch during my second med-cruise. It was oh, sometime between 
midnight and 2:00am. And I had a contact come on the radarscope. . . 


This target was above 65,000 feet and the strength of the signal was as strong as the surface 
contact on the water of an aircraft carrier so this contact was huge. It got my attention and the 
attention of others that were on watch. There were four enlisted on watch and two officers at the 
time that this occurred. We challenged it and checked the codes out. It was not commercial. 
And then it began to move fairly slowly at first, and then very quickly. It was doing better than 
1,000 knots. The first time I picked it up on radar it was hovering, it was stationary. Then it was 
doing about 1 ,000 knots. Then when we tried to make contact it was over 500 miles away. . . 


In this particular case it was showing up on height finding equipment and it was showing up 
on radar equipment. The CO came in and he wanted to know what the heck was going on here. 
And they looked at it and asked what the hell was that, you know? And it got the attention of the 
Captain at that time, Captain Clark- my commander was Commander Gibson. There was only 
one person on watch in ECM and in the matter of 1 5 minutes the ship was being turned and two 
Phantom-2 ’s were being prepared for launch. 


Now I got on a set of headphones and I’m on a SPA 8 repeater now. And I’m listening to 
communications between the pilots and the CO flight ops. And when you go to general quarters 
you do the same thing and I was used to doing this because one of my jobs during general 
quarters was to sit right next to the commander of our division and to listen to the aircraft. My 
job was to log in all the tally-ho’s and everything [a tally-ho is when contact is made with the 
target by the fighter pilot]. My job was as a recognition expert, also-to be able to identify 
different types of navy ships, foreign ships, commercial ships, maritime ships, and aircraft. Not 
only electronically but visually and be familiar with electronic fingerprints. 


In any event, the Phantom-2’s went to after-burners. And they were about 100 miles or so 
away from this contact and turned on the conical scan radar to lock on and it winked out. Just 




148 






disappeared. I could see the two Phantom-2’ s on my scope and this thing wi nk ed out. They flew 
around for about 10 minutes and then they headed back to the ship. 


After they landed, about 35 minutes later, this thing winks back on again and it’s about 12 to 
15 miles from the ship, hovering at about 30,000 feet. . . 


Of course I couldn’t say anything. I didn’t say anything because I was told by my CO that, 
Jordan, you know, what you have in your log, this never happened. And I wasn’t the only one 
there on watch that night. So anybody who was there at that time knows what I’m talking about 
and knows that it’s the truth. But less than a dozen people knew what went on that night. And 
that ship had 5,000 men on it. . . 


In this case, the radar contact was not leaving any kind of a heat signature. It was not leaving 
any kind of a trail. It was not moving at an usual speed. This thing was moving 10,15 miles in 
30 seconds, 20 miles, then 30 miles, then 40 miles, then 100 miles. And in three and one-half 
minutes this thing moved almost 500 miles. And then it was moving from one altitude to another 
in a way that would cause any normal pilot to black out. This was a real contact. This signal 
from this contact at that distance and that altitude was sending back a signal as strong as the 
Roosevelt itself and the Roosevelt was over 1,000 feet long. 


A Lieutenant Commander whom I didn’t know very well came over and he asked, you know, 
what was up Jordan? What have you got in your log? And he says, you don’t need to put that in 
there. Now to me that was highly irregular, highly irregular to say that particularly on a ship’s 
logs. I did have the contact logged in there. And I started writing in UFO. . . 


Years later during the [Space Shuttle] STS 48 mission, while they were in orbit, I was 
listening on the HAM radio. I have an OMNI antennae and the astronauts were saying, ‘we have 
the UFO under observation’. And then I heard them say we have the alien spacecraft under 
observation. I was one of the HAM operators who did hear that. So I called Dr. Kasher about 
that, he is a friend of mine who had a son going to school where I teach, and I told him they are 
talking about alien spacecraft. They actually use that term over the airways. And it just stunned 
me. It just stunned me. . . 


Later I saw Inter-Agency cars right across the street and guys in suits taking pictures of me. 
They also took pictures of me and my wife in Kansas City when we were at Worlds of Fun. I told 
other people about this because I got very skittish about what was going on here. I took down the 
license number of the vehicle and it was registered at an Air Force Base. 


I also had an Air Force Intelligence Officer visit me at my house. . . 


The planet is becoming intellectually celibate in my opinion. People are walking around in a 
daze. They have no idea, no idea what is going on. Many corporations have been getting 
wealthy [from UFO related research and materials]. Yes they’ve been providing humanity as a 
whole with technological change that benefits us all but they really aren’t sharing the meat and 
the source of where it all came from and ultimately they are not sharing the truth about UFO’s. . . 




149 






Testimony of Mr. James Kopf, US Navy/ National Security Agency 


October 2000 




Mr. Kopf joined the Navy in 1969 and worked in communications part of the 
time on the USS JFK which was carrying nuclear weapons. He worked for the 
NSA from 1980 till 1997. In his testimony he tells how in the summer of 1979 
all the electronics and communications on board the USS JFK stopped 
functioning when a huge glowing orange-yellow UFO hovered above. He 
personally saw this pulsating UFO, as did a number of others. All eight teletype 
machines were printing randomly and the ship went to battle-station alert for two 
hours. A radar operator friend of his told him that the radar screens were 
glowing and then went black - they couldn’t detect anything. A few days after 
this incident the Commanding Officer and Executive Officer came on the ship- 
wide closed circuit TV system and reminded the crew that certain events that 
take place on board the ship are considered classified and should not be discussed 
with anyone. When the ship finally returned to Norfolk, VA, men in suits arrived 
to interview various crewmembers. 


JK: Mr. James Koph SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


JK: . . .All eight teletypes were just typing complete garbage. Totally incoherent. I had seen 
one or two mistakes in the messages but never anything this extensive. So I immediately called 
the facilities control on the intercom to inform them that my broadcast was out and they informed 
me that they were busy because all communications had just gone out, ship-wide. This had never 
occurred before. 


We had an intercom and a pneumatic tube system that went between the communications 
room to the signal bridge, which is located at the very top of the island structure of the carrier. 
And we heard a very excited voice come on yelling that “God was here. It was the end of the 
world.” And we looked at each other and thought that that was strange. What was going on 
there? Another few seconds went by and another voice came on, more controlled. This person 
said that there was something over the ship. Well, I looked at a friend of mine, a shipmate, and 
he looked at me and we decided to go have a look. . . 


So we exited the Communications Center and went to the catwalk on the port side of the ship 
on the edge of the flight deck and we observed a large glowing sphere over the ship. It was hard 
to decide what size this thing was because there was no perspective. It was late in the evening. 
The sun had gone down, it was twilight, but it looked huge. . . 


After that, I talked to a few shipmate friends that I had on the ship. One in particular worked 
in the radar department and he was on watch during the incident. He told me that all the radar 
screens were glowing- and then nothing. They couldn’t detect anything on radar. We stayed up 
most of the night talking about it. 


We heard that the compasses were not working on the bridge and that the radar navigational 
system had gone offline. . . 




150 






A few days later the Commanding Officer and the Executive Officer came on the closed 
circuit television system that we had on board. It was the only way that they could address the 
crew of 5,000. He [the Commanding Officer] looked at the camera - and I will never forget this - 
and he said, “I would like to remind the crew that certain events that take place on board a major 
naval combative vessel are considered classified and should not be discussed with anyone without 
a need to know.” And that was all he said. . . 


The UFO was only over the ship for maybe five minutes or less however the ramifications of 
the disruptions lasted for at least an hour. That is why we stayed at battle stations for two hours. 
I guess they were waiting to see if it came back. And they were still trying to restart systems and 
get things back to fully operational. It took them probably at least an hour. 


There were no aircraft in the air. They were all on board when the incident started. They 
kept two F-4 Phantoms, which were called a Ready CAP, Combat Air Patrol. From what I heard, 
they would not operate. They were trying to start those jets and from what I heard, they wouldn’t 
start. They were out of commission. . . 


We had an organization on this ship called IOIC, Integrated Operations Intelligence 
Communications, something to that effect. I heard that they were out there taking pictures of this 
thing during the event. 


I am convinced that somebody in the government knows a lot more than we know. I have my 
own theories as to why it is being hidden. I think that there are many reasons that the information 
is being kept from the public. 


SG: What would those be? 


JK: They probably feel that the general public couldn’t handle the knowledge of 


extraterrestrials visiting. I think that they have information that would seriously undermine the 
economy of the country. I think there are devices that could produce energy at very low cost and 
with no pollution but coiporate greed would prohibit that. 


That would be the part that would bother me the most about the cover-up. I think of all the 
pollution that there is and all that could have been saved. . . 


Testimony of Lieutenant Colonel Joe Wojtecki 


October 2000 


Lt. Colonel Wojtecki spent 20 years in the Air Force and retired in 1988. He 
spent most of his time with Strategic Air Command and Tactical Air Command. 


He tells of a night in April of 1 969 while stationed at Loring AFB in Maine when 
he and his flight instructor both saw three very bright lights in a perfect 
equilateral triangle silently moving across the sky. They estimated that this UFO 
was lower than 3,000 feet. He discovered the next morning when he reported for 
duty that for six hours, a UFO was seen hovering over a group of B-52’s 
containing nuclear weapons. Every time a plane drew near to the lights, they 
would part and move in ways that were very unconventional. When the planes 
left, the lights came together again and focused on the group of B-52’s. Many 
years later Lt. Col. Wojtecki attended a lecture given by SG and saw a 
photograph of a UFO that was the exact configuration that he had seen years 
earlier. 




151 






JW: Lt. Col. Joe Wojtecki 




SG: Dr. Steven Greer 




JW: . . . As we got out of the car my flight instructor was looking back to the northeast in the 
direction of the runway and said, what is that? And I looked up in the direction he was looking in 
the sky over the runway. What we saw were three very bright but independent lights. I mean, 
three separate lights; we assumed they were independent. And they were in a perfect equilateral 
triangle with the point south and the other two points of the triangle directly behind it to the north. 
The curious thing about this formation of lights that caused us to watch it for an extended period 
of time — 10 or 15 minutes we watched it — was that first, it was silent. Second, it was moving 
slowly but in a perfectly constant altitude, perfectly constant velocity, and perfectly constant 
direction from north to south. We pieced together later it was actually coming from the direction 
where my flight instructor had reported seeing the flash of light earlier. . . 


The next morning I reported for duty. This would now have been the morning of April 1 8 th . 
The first duty I had each day was to report to a wing stand-up briefing in the wing command post. 
This was a Strategic Air Command base equipped with, as I recall, three squadrons of B-52’s, 
two squadrons of 135’s, and a squadron of F-106 interceptors. When I arrived at the command 
post the next morning about 6:30 in the morning, it was unusually active and unusually well 
staffed. In fact, it was a beehive of activity. And there were people who had obviously been 
there most of the night from their general appearance and apparent level of frustration. So I very 
quickly learned that what had been occurring during the night began at about the time my flight 
instructor and I saw these lights. And it seems that these lights did position themselves over the 
alert force of the B-52’s, over the alert pad of a number of B-52’s configured for their wartime 
mission should they be required to perform it. Therefore this was a very sensitive area, 
naturally.... 


And as sorties returned, I was told by those who had been there overnight they were asked to 
close with and try to identify these lights. And this included B-52’s, KC 135’s and some of the F- 
106 interceptors that had been out during their particular training missions. And the pattern was 
the same: each time an aircraft would approach, the lights would part in ways that defied any 
aerodynamic knowledge that anybody there had or could explain. There was rapid acceleration, 
rapid changes in direction including vertical. They were doing things that something that is flying 
by the rules of aerodynamics that we understand would not have been at able to do. Then always 
to return to their point of interest which was the aircraft in the alert area. And then at some point 
late in the night, early in the morning their curiosity was satisfied and they took off very 
expeditiously in a straight line and were gone. 


I would be guessing how many hours this whole event took from beginning to end but it was 
probably in the range of six and perhaps more hours in duration. 


So I filed it away. And I just mused about it and I discussed it with a few people over the 
years but not too many. Until a day in the early 1990’s — I forget the exact year and date but it 
was about ‘93 or ‘94 — that I had occasion to attend a lecture by Dr. Steven Greer in Hampton, 
Virginia. And saw a photograph of what I now understand is a very familiar sighting among 
those who have been privileged to actually see a UFO. And when 1 saw the photograph, I 
literally jumped out of my seat, grabbed my wife by the hand and 1 said, that’s it. That is exactly 
what I had seen nearly 25 years ago, at that point. But to see that picture just brought back the 
image so strikingly clear that there was no doubt in my mind that that was exactly what we had 
seen over the runway in April of 1969. And it was only then that I had any notion that it was in 
fact a single machine not three independent machines. 




152 






I will deduce with some degree of knowledge that they must have been because of the 
repeated attempts of returning aircraft to close with them, from distances and altitudes where they 
couldn’t have acquired them visually because of the low ceiling that night. So I would deduce 
from that fact that they were being tracked on radar, both ground control radar and airborne radar 
on the aircraft that were returning to base. It would be a very reasonable deduction to say that 
they were easily being tracked on radar. . . 


I do remember very clearly that no aggressive action was taken by the Air Force by anybody 
at the wing in response to the lights because they in fact showed no aggressive or threatening 
behavior whatsoever. They were simply in airspace that was restricted air space. But they were 
not doing anything that would prompt any sort of a security response. . . 


SG: Was it bigger than a conventional plane? 


JW: Oh absolutely. That’s why I was so surprised when I saw the photograph to learn that 
those lights which were so far apart could conceivably be part of a single machine. And why I 
naturally assumed, and for all those years believed, I had seen three separate machines operating 
independently- although their formation was so perfect that in retrospect, clearly there is no 
reason to assume they were three, except that for them to be part of one unit it would have to have 
been so enormously large compared to anything. And at that time, B-52’s were considered pretty 
big airplanes. And this of course dwarfed anything that would have been part of a B-52. 




Testimony of Staff Sergeant Stoney Campbell, US Air Force 


October 2000 


Sergeant Campbell entered the Air Force in 1966. In the summer of 1967 he was 
guarding a B-52 at a SAC AFB in Oklahoma when suddenly, directly over one of the 
B-52’s, a huge bluish haze appeared. It was in the form of a boomerang wing and 
was glittery and not solid. It was picked up on radar and seen by numerous people. 


... This was 30 years or more ago. This happened in Altus, Oklahoma at a SAC Air Force 
Base. I was guarding a B-52. SAC is the strategic air command and we were guarding nuclear 
weapons. I was on guard duty, guarding a B-52 bomber in the bomber area, which is divided in 
two sections with what we called the Hurry House in the middle. And that’s where the officers 
and the flight crew stay on ready if they are on alert to disburse to the planes quickly. This would 
have been in the summer of 1967, sometime in the summer period. There were approximately 
four planes on each side. It would have been at night, probably late, midnight to probably 
sometime in the morning, between that period of time. Suddenly, over one of the B-52’s which 
were armed with nuclear weapons, there appeared a bluish haze, almost in the form of a 
boomerang or a wing shape. And in this haze there was a glittery light. We had no idea what this 
was. We do know that the SAC teams were called to ready so they came out to the planes. But 
prior to that, this [object] just hovered over the plane for a short period of time and then it 
vani s hed. We were told later that it was picked up on radar. It wasn’t as if you actually saw it 
glide away. It was like in a whoosh it was gone. 


It covered most of the wingspan of the B-52 — it was large. . . 




153 






UBAF-r Juno lyo? 




BelntitonoKifio with Inhabitant* 
« f Calesti-la.1 Bn-.Ueo 








Belatlonahljia with oxtratorrootrlnl K-r. prooenfca 


^ oUHdpplHfc of tnta, -national 
that a L Knr <‘ rent in S tntom*ont beingo 


SSSU rt 2 .XSiS 1 f^^di??iW t rSt,M. briw u > 
po..i M i^rir°^V£S‘L l inSS 4 ^^ t J i i!; J 5 “*SS IT 
SiJEfi 5 & 5 .*:JS!!fi*S. , ?s,KV ,01 ' , “ °" “h 10 ” th *'* 


.^*' 5 ^* ^ ^ it would bo njaa.iflor') to t>o (.tibl 1 «»>• 


«rtir 51 ; ° n Mlt r tMew tl ' rouj r h •""* or other, Jl«ui 


ai IoinaNi, n» u fJr«t oo» 1 U]on for eli lntoiiUarioo bh«t 
th«y vhould novo a jinyoiolei^y «t*mr to th^t or\en.* 


a now Ian .''ZTl. '’'^rnnlinnci lew nimlt make alnoe far 
a now law on a aifrei-ont boom, atm it eight be celled 'Law 


tK« n $ant^w!!h > ' the Snide line* fm.rel lr. 


! '? Bontat- euoh. Obsloualy, the Idee or rov-olutlanlxtns 
lnteihntlonal law tb th* joint where it would ba cnaabla of 
ili** 1 ?*" •»t“»tlorm would conjol ue to sake 5 obon*a 
>" ea baeio that 'it woui.1 no ltm*S? 


tnrti ? 6 } hnt S “ ko '** lt 10 eonoelead' 


s,rferono ' tha - kt 


_ „ * f l,rfl " 8 IntMjJuant balnes were In oceeceslon or n 


ooro or l»«r oulturo, ana a nor e or 1««» eerOc; jelutra* 
‘J 8 !) 0 "' I 1 ’! 5 ' " ou,d >' B, « *" abooluto riant to t,« 


I - o/iit tea. so Indojondent and eoser-lgst aeoetee. we would 
ltll-i 2.~?2.I' 0 w Ba w™*?"* the* fa on tabu at-, tins 


i ?**, 1 A* Sf?“ H,aeh taiittt. relnbiotwhlja .held b. 


b»««d. and it would' bo tmoeooK-y to aaoojt aony »r tluur 
pr lacijuan , 


Finally, if they ahould reject all j-aowrul • .-• 


Soufo r 5* i 2 n w! lna “ n *"*lhont throat to the earth, we 


« JL* ” riRM ' to *•«*«■** o deforce, but only iiaufer 


as would bo naooaoery to ennui title dtuj *er. 




.. . doother possibility any exlec, that a neeolse or ho«e 
sapient night hero eetabllehod thexseleos at an inde»on<lnnt 
nation ou tijbtjusr c<>j«eCrl>jl bod j in our aoinr tfjBCStt cn*i 




5 




154 




• i • 'VW* . 


»to1to 4 oultursly ioisnpeuitohfcly from our#, Obrioudly, thlB 
(►omuLbiitejr aoynndii ore tinny di'auijonumiatt, wiio*« oonlttlonn 
oannot yet bo leretosa, Uowonnsr, mo oan nohft u «0u4y of tho 
bast# on whinh tuoh u thin* 'nl#ht linvo aaaufrm! , ” 


m tno first ylooo, 11 tDu$ oomutlont on fchfcoe belt on 
lot# 8Ry tho noon, or tho .lairafc Mars, would hut* to bo auoli 
on to ysc-nlt n otoblo, oral to a oortaln oxtont, IMoyondont 
llfo. fron imi woojiowto atwndjtolnt. tiuoli Ha* boon twooulateu 
about tti# nosBlbilltia* for lira mitiw; cut*ld» or our 
atnoo.hor® ooa boyond, nluoyo hTFOthotloollj, oral ttioro oro 
thosB who «o eo far as to bIVb formulas for ttis nraatlon of 
on artificial a tieo sphere on thu noon, which undoubfeert ly have 
a certain anient! fie foundation, mid Kliioh nmy on* u«y oo«© 
to light. let tt a«RU«« that anguoniutt ciilloatas on tho moon 
bay oxlat end contain up bo -X3 per cent water. l/« Inc ‘energy 
and. machine© brought to tho moon, pnrhnpa from a. «pna« station, 
the rucks could b» broken upl, pulverized, and than backed to 
drive cf f the water or ory a thill nation. Thin could be collected 
ana then aeooepooed. Into hardjrogon end oxygen, using fut elnotrio 
current or tho short wn»« rntiiaticm of the eun. Tne oxygen 
could be Utred for breathing jpurpooea} tho hy dragon might be 
uood co a fuel* i 1 , . 


In any case, if no exlal-enoo is possible on, oolaotrlfti 


bodies er.ooat Tor enterprises for the exploration of tholr 
natural richeo, with a continuous lnteruhango or the nwn who 
HO j u OB thera, tumbler to nsbdhllnh thenselre* then* indefinitely 
end be able to live isolated, life, indopondenoo Kill never 
take place. 




.! ,ow U P C0n!0 tc t? ‘ 1 ° i*nobl«» of dole) w lulu i w utt. i.o 


do ir tho InhabltiuiUo cf olwlofcrlal bodieo. or ext r« t or rc atrial 
bii o 1 Of ' ! cs 1 entitles (EBS) dajelre to nettle hare. 


1# If they aro politically organ! tad cumX jioadoi h n 
certain culture similar to ajur own, they way no rwca/cnl xcd «b 
a independent people. They cjculd corridor what decree of 
development would bo required on earth far colonlcin*. 


2. If they considnr Jur culture to 'devoid of politiecl 


unity, they ■would, have the night to oolouxco, of course, this 
colonisation cannot be conducted cn olaselu lluan. 


A nuporior form of odloniEing Kill have to bo conoeiTcd, 
that could bo a kind of tutelage, possibly through the twclfc 
epprovol of tho United Natidns. out would tho United nations 
legally have the right of allowing nuoh tutelage over uo in ouch 
a fashion? j* 




155 






-7^— I :'••••• 


; <a> Although the Uni tod Nations la on ‘ - * 


i nt o r n» 1 1 ona 1 organisation, there lit no doubt; that It would 
hart no right of tutelage, since Its domain does not extend * 
beyond relationships betweeu lto membera, It Mould have the 
right to intervene only -If the relationships of n member 
nation Kith a celoBtrial body affected another neither nation. 
-Kith an extraterrestrial people if beyond the domain of tho 
United Notions. But if those ralatlonohlpn entailed o 
conflict with another wambor nation, tho United Nnticnw would 
hara the right to intervene. 


lb) If the United Nations wore a eupro-rnt 1 onol 
organleirtloa, it would have ooapotoncjr to Aool with oil 
problems related, to qxtrat err oo trial poopies. or aourao. 
oven though it da nerely an lnterxuitlonal or^enlxation, it 
oould have this oumpotonoe if It a painter a tat os would bo 
willing to recognise At. 




It Is difficult to predict what tho attitude or 
international law will be with regard to the occupation by 
coleatrlal peoples of certain locations on bur planet, but 
the only thing that ban be foreseen is that there will be 
a proround change in ‘traditional uaruieptn. 


We cannot exclude tho ponalblllty that a raoo of 
oxtratarratriul poowio more advene art technologically ana 
economically may take upon Itself tho rlxht to occupy 
another cts loot rial bcjdy. How, then, would this occupation 
corco about? 


1. the IdoK uf Hxp-loitatlon by one colootridl 


state would ba rwjooted, they nay think it would be advisable 
to grant it to all others capable of reaohing another 
celoe trial body. But this would bu to maintain a situation 
of prlrllofio for tha-K* states. 


2. The division Of a coleatrall body into xons» 
end the diotrlbutlon of them among other cole* trial otatoa. 
Thin would present the problem oT distribution. Horeover, 
other oelontrial atatoe would bo deprived of hhs possibility 
of owning on area, or if they wore granted one It would 
involve* complicated Operations. 


3 * Indivisible co*«u« ereignty , giving each oeleatnal 
state the right to mijtko whatever uoe is moat convenient to 
its interests, Independently #f the ethers. This would 
create a situation of anarchy^ 05 the strongest one would 
win out In .the and. 


. 4. A noral' entity? Tho noitt feasible aalution. It 


: 


! - 3 - 




156 








uuanuroa nuot bo taken, to roctify o Tory ourlouo aroblo* or*# 


very 0Fj>ar«nt« 




flooycolfuHy, 




Di** J. aobftr|i Oyytmholicur 


Dlrootor of Kdvnnood Ctudieo 
*ri.nci«tort, Now Oeroey 




frofottoor Albert fiui»mn 


rrJnooton, how Jorooy 




M ~ elf and hkva 'tod »' 9 and I «ni-t admit iJwro 


1« «<xnr» U*±»i« link I bar* bi-U.r A.lu .«•.•>» -.-4- will r. .•*•»> Mur 
it r ox fh» oitvloviA wits' is l »iiv.W.‘r*i twttvl M|» | unJvi-nf 
«i.-p mA ‘A «oj WU **»'!* • U’>y aor^ryj^d o«»r. »•;»** tit 


An 1 _..•!« r« t"*vl itj HarvruiLx resu>\>«l ina lilsa, 
or <top4*tV Vi r «'ia< wrif*r till* yi*>i *\ *• frOT'dv.t, 1 ■♦■oiw** 
to O«*rtlou, and ho * 




, ■xS'i'IZ 








bumniHixi v » i,m — — 


# 8, P.O. Box 3 79 , Kno-^vlj O e^ Term Ms ec 




I Of 




SSTW 8, P.0. Bo xST^Jggg^^ 


— " Of SOURCE: | . . cswiRHtS «r ot«« MU«eO . . ' 


eonnrttor , moMCr • ’ 


, _• V oTrr.H UJOAU.T »nj«»x TOSSIM.TT"* ; 


OBJECTS <S5ETWED OTER OaK »««.» «ww**« t«« * 


UOO-a-w - «ot muM_LY «ru*»u w ™oom.uc . • • • * 


— UNUttlAftlX | _ TWUTM C»»»**OT PC A««tO • • • • * 


*■ 


“ _ ^nb^ect* as above, dated 15 Oct 1950.) 


,«*' O' .-ro«»T»- (Refer; Summary of Inforoati , £ Trooper, Edvard D. ?.;.™er. 


On 13 October 1950 Atomic Energy J Te “ s itv of Tennessee Research Farm, 


!?C* ttS^ £crSr:4°h°- Parting 


$ tt "Control Zone." This °^ ra a J£teSnd! Soon these tv;o men realised .hat 


the^or«Mrly^oscribed P sn»l<p^bchtod the^air'^®^ sloww fchffi* an^aireraf t 
continued to descend in a con -rolled » lcve -n e( j off and flevf slov.ly , P“ 


WSS^S&SSSS^T 




23E BW5SK ! 


ffjrssfswaii i— - —r 1 — ’»•** * 


. . ..too had visual ref ere °- 




•KoS seen again rive ! , reference of 


thie ssa 


jtvaer was interrupted t^e during J the fantastic nigbtofthi 


vehicle, to ye.i*y 


the description as befo.e- „ w Cap t. of the 


"Tr: f i. —4. — - +~ — ~ZZ' 


, U.J u ooneared to be an aircra*-, 


a. When the object described as* "smoke writing." 


trailing smoKe, or oetter u= 




toiwfum*. 3 cc Headquarters . Third Army 
1 cc OSI, Knoxville > Tennessee 
1 cc FBI. Knoxville. Tennessee 




Tec to Security Division, -SC, CaK 
1 cc File 




. -ico to*** CCQ 
! i kin «i iD O O 




.. *. ihi«m€M rtietIM erm*_ 




v ^lfvNHOEHI i 




g 








159 












L 


t 




ii 


mii 


iii 1 1 iii i 


1 ■ - - ^JAULARY of ~“/OKUA.TI0H 


. DATE lo JKn 


>■ . ■- ■■■— 


PREPARING OFFICE j Office of the AC 
Houston. Texa* 


of S, 0-2, Headquarter*. Fourth Array. Port Sam 


.. 


SUBJECT- 


Uneonvontional Airoraft 
■(Control Humber A-1917) 


» • 


\ 


■ ~s 




Ithis headquarter*. subject as 




L 


F 




S- 




(C-2 WOTBi Tnis report is a supplement to report, 
above, dated 2 January 1040.) : 


1. following le a 11 st of sightings of unidentified light, over New Uexioo sub- 
sequent to 27 Dtfoember 1948 1 . 


a. Loe Alamo*. 20 Deo 48. 2054 hour*. Failing light from 45 degree angle, 
decreasing to 20 degree angle. Observed by four security inspectors at Lo. Alamo. 
AEC project. I 




b. 




Lo. Alamos. 28 D.o 48. 0431 hourp... 'Descending Tortlcal light much .lower 
than fAlling .star. Disintegrated in greenish flash lighting up cloud area between 
observer and light. Observed by Seourlty inspector. Los Alamos ABC project. • 


o. Loe Alamos. 30 Deo 48, 2010 and 2100 hours. High speed motor ecjmd 
cirectly over Los Alamos and abovo ovep^>— At, Sound heard for seven seconds 
and repeated 10 minutee later. Hear^^gaii^ 


Positive determination that no vehicles ^pa opp); ote ^- n 5 highways and no planes over- 
he.d. Cheeked end observed by Loa/A'lamoy seoih'jity jinspeotor*. 




si 


si 


>C 


ij 




\ 




>/ Alamos seouidi 




a. Sandla Base, 6 Jan 49 ,\l*3.j hours! Brightly lighted object from south- 
east to northwest. Diamond shape, twvj£e*j£— fong. Altitude 1500 to 2000 feet. Speed 
— faster than a jet piano.. No aaolee or vapon troll. No sound. Observed by Sandla 
B.se sentry who claims experience in aircraft observation. 




2. Dr. La PA2, Clotoorologlst at the University of Now Haxico, personally inter- 


_ u ..11 ....... a.k. L... ... M m HQi mn rt #1 tnnait firhtiorB to V 




V 


% 




viewed all persons who have isade.dbeervntions. He has made transit sightinge to 
determine altitudes and angles of flight. He has made a report to the O.S.l. of the 
U.S.A.r., closing with thl s remark, "I have no hesitancy In testifying that an 
object possessing tho real path and other peculiarities observed by Messrs. WILSON, 
TROF.TT, SlfcOSO. and SKIPPER was not a falling meteorite.’ 




'< 


* 




Distribution i D/lj C/Sj G-3j 14th AF j FBIj filej O.S.l., A.U.C. 


^ - - . CL... / r «!*i )»rp ri nra„T' 9 , 




•. i 


r - 




iSUft 








160 












-.3 13 . 


■ dk jx~ • nt, < 




v COMPLAINT FORM ■ 




kirtland afb, :w. a Aug - 3 sep eo. 
Alleged Slgthlngs of Unidentified ■- 7' 
Atrial Ll {pits In Restricted Test Range. ;• 


' y . •! *■ -.*> •- ■>” 1 


■ jjj £ . TVS ' ' ’ ' 


• A . • }£ i ,-i. ' ' »i *• ' 


^1'v* VI ''-V: •“ ,x ’ 


f? i • '-M'r 


p5 i •» r. !'■ 






uJfc t 






M l • ^ ■ • - ■ ’ ■ - 'j ■ " ‘ 


2 Sept SO, SOURCE related on 8 Aug 80, three Security PoJi-mrm assigned to 
PS. KAFB. IW, on duty inside the Manzano Weapons Storage Area sighted an 
tlfled lisprt In the air that traveled from North to South ever the Coyote -c 
area of the Department of Defense Restricted Test Range on KAFB, »M. The' 
t f Pollcrah -identified as: r. SSGT. STETHEN FERENC, Area Supervisor. AIC MARTIN 
T and pm ANTHCNY D. FRAZIER, were later Interviewed separately by SOURCE 
1 three related the same statement At approximately 23SChrs. , Wild an 
I duty in Charlie Sector (.East side of Manzano. the three observed a very brltfit 
I light .In the sty eppradnately 3 idles North-North East of their position. The 
yfilitfit 'tra’/eled with great speed and stepped suddenly in the sky over Coyote Canyon. 


? (The three first thought the object was a helicopter, however, after Observing 
- •■•the strange aerial- maneuvers (step and go), they felt a helicopter- onjldn't 
have performed such skills. The light landed in the Coyote Canyon area. Sometime 
later, three witnessed tha light take off and leave proceeding straight ip at a 
hishe speed and disappear. 1 2 3 


2. Central security Control (CSC) inside Maneano. contacted Sandia Security, 
the conducts frequent building checks on two alarmed structures In the area. They 
teMsed that a patrol was already in the area and would Investigate. 


3. Qn 11 Aug 80, RUSS CURTIS, Sandia Security, advised that cn 9'Aug SO, a Sandia 
Security Ouerd, (vho wishes his name not be divulged for fear of harassment) . related 
the following: At apprcodmately C02Chrs., he was driving East cn the Coyote Canyon 


.' access road cn a routine building check of an alarmed structure . As he approached 
the structure he observed a brigat light near U* grand behind the structure. He 
,i also observed an object he first thoutfit was a helicopter. : ftit after driving 
: closer, he observed a rant disk shaped cbjecc. He atterpted to radio fer a bock 
ip patrol but his radio would not work. As he approached the object on foot armed 
with a shotgun, the object tcck off In a vertical direction at a high rate of speed. 
The guard was a fo r me r helicopter mechanic In the U.S. Arty and stated the object 
be^ctoserved was not . a helicopter, -| .. { 


SOUR- 1 edvised on 23 Aug 80, three other security policeman observed the sate 


k .. • 1 . ■' I * : 




. : r 




IU 
l- • i, 




161 


















000836 




v- ! "•' tl . . Ml. CTO 9SS*J52 


; rv«TTNU£D A3*i" 




object l a n d e c i» (Xyots 




aeriU P^ cr ^ d Ci ^ r STt^ object take off.!-'* -u..'t-"' *'" .. • ’ 


“ £rym. T^V did noe '"®* u V . . . — /rtafcod test re^ used ** 


I S. coyote 


1 4«. 01 £**£’ SJSm^en «* petro^n 


J r s*Se-£-°^ ss!5! -'“ r ’ 


i i ' 


g k The two 111 armed 5 u\cwr= .i . 


- .' “material.. i ! 


5* * :. ’ . 








QJC370 ~ 






EXTRACTS 


NORAD COMMAND DIRECTOR'S LOG (1975) 


29 Oct 75/0630Z: Command Director colled by Air Force Operations 


Center concerning an unknown helicopter landing 
in the munitions storage area at boring AFB, Maine. ~ 
Apparently this was second night in a row for this 
occurrence. There wa s also an indication, but not 
confirmed, that Canadian bases had been overflown — 


by a helicopter. 


31 Oct 75/0445Z: Report from Uurtsmith AFB through Air Force Ops _ 


Center - incident at 0355Z. Helicopter hovered over 
SAC Weapons storage a^-ea then departed area. Tanker 
flying at 2700 feet made both visual sighting and 
radar skin paint. Tracked object 25NM SE over 
Lake Huron where contact was lost. 


1 Nov 75/09Z0Z: Received, as info, niessage from loring AFB, Maine, — 


citing probable heliqopter overflight of base. . 


8 Nov 75/0753Z: 24th NORAD Region unknown track J330, heading SSW, _ 


12000 feet. 1 to 7 objects, 46.46°N x 109. Z3W. Two 
F-106 scrambled out of Great Falls at 0754Z. SAC 
reported visual sighting from Sabotage Alert Teams {SAT)_ 
Kl, K3, LI and L6 (lights and set sounds). Heather 
• section states no anomolous propagation or northern 


lights. 08357. SAC SAT Teams K3 and 14 report visual, 


K3 reports target at; 300 feet altitude and L4 reports — 
target at 5 miles. Contact lost at 0320Z. F-106's 


returned to base at PS50Z with negative results. 


0905Z Great Falls radar search and height had inter- _ 
mifctent contact. 0910Z SAC teams agains had visual 
(Site C-l, 10 miles SE Stanford, Montana). 0920Z SAC 
CP reported that when F-106’s were in area, targets _ 
would turn out lights, and when F-106's left, targets 
would turn lights op. F-106's never gained visual 
or radar contact at anytime due to terrain clearance. _ 
j This same type of activity has been reported in the 


Halmstrom area for several days al thoimh previous to 
tonight no unknowns were declared. The track will 
be carried as a remaining unknown. — 


i 


10 Nov 75 Apparently Minot AFB was reportedly "buzzed" by a 


bright object. The object's size seemed to be that — 
of an automobile. |lt was flying at an altitude of 
100D to 2000 feet and was noiseless. Mo further 
information or description has been received by this __ 
organization. 




163 








000971 




16 Nov 75/C644Z : 




18 Nov 75/1255Z : 




25 Nov 75/1245Z: 




r 


r 




12 Nov 75/07152: 




14 Nov 75/05507.: 




15 Nov 75/07422: 




15 Nov 75/12292: 




— 17 Nov 75/17052: 




23 Nov 75/17002: 




The CotuMtid Post; •occived a report from a 


Cloquet, (HI (phono . 


<■■1 - At 0430/!, while driving toward homo, lie 
passed through the town -of Esfcn. lie sow a cigar 
shaped objective with red, green and white flashing 
lights, going up and down and making sharp turns, 
lie observed this for two hours. Sky conditions were 
clear. [ 


The Command Post was told that sightings of fire 
balls, vicinity of Mcndicino County, California, 
had token ploce. No further information, o.g,, 
time, location, duration, etc., was, available. 


Pe ter sburg , 


Virginia, reported that at about 0600 EST, she saw 
an object hovering at tree-ton level in a clearing 
npar power lines one-half mile distant. It had 
4 red lights in diamond shape and !> white flashing 
lights. She heard no noise, saw no. movement and 
could not distinguish any color. She was in her 
car at the time, and slowed to 10 niph but did not 
stop. At 1340, the Coinnond Post wa‘s informed that 
she had been re Interviewed by local authorities. 


She stated that the object was diamond-shaped with 
one red light at each point and thjjt she did not 
see any wings. jTho location was reported to be one 
mile WSW of Petersburg, In a wooded area where power 
lines were bein^ installed. 


Faleoubridgc Canadian Forces station! rcluvn.l report 
from Mr. JJ, UJilT UU 1 l^.ttl . V.UgaB3 C t. " ."IT. :: 1 " "' . T l m . Sudbury. 
Ontario, lie saw two objects with what. appeared to be 
artificial light failing on and off with a jerky motion. 


An unidentified Civilian, located ltj«« miles Trom Falcon- 
bridge Canadian Forces station, saw i.-i dot-like object 
Tor 1 and 1/4 hours. It wan rotation - golufi back and 
forth at a hlgii altitude and had while, bine ami red 
11 gilts. 


A Hr. .l-u v , Sudbury, Ontario, 


was facing south, lie observed ene height yellow object 
going up and backi, leaving a tail. It was very High, hut 
did not change position In relation In otlicr stars. 




A Mr. married student residence, 


I-au rent lan University, Sudbury, Ontario, reported lie had 
been looking east'. In a partly e.iopdy sky, lie saw one 
bright object about 70* elevation, 1 tko a cup in a bowl. 


He. was looking at it through binoculars. It climbed high 
out of range of his binoculars. He observed it for 20 
minutes and was Witnessed by his wife. 


An unidentified caller re.ported .a large orange hall 
was seen on an azimuth oC 45’ from River Court, Ontario. 


It had two red lights and was stationary. 


A Ms t XWBXXnOM r* 3 g urfl , Chelmsford, reported she 
and friends were travelling by ear from Sudbury to Chelms- 
ford. They were followed by a huge oval-shaped object 
with white blinking lights. It remained below the clouds 
oil the while and kept up with the Car. 




164 






3.8.4 Government Insiders/ NASA/ Deep Insiders 




Introduction: 


(From an oral presentation by Dr. Greer) 


In this section you will hear from people who have been involved in events where objects of 
extraterrestrial origin have landed or have crashed or been forced down and which have been 
retrieved. This is, of course, explosive testimony. It establishes the reality of the phenomenon 
and also of the fact that we have been studying this phenomenon for years. Many people might 
believe that this is limited to the so-called "Roswell event" of the 1940s; this could not be further 
from the truth. In fact there have been multiple events, at least a couple of dozen, where objects 
of extraterrestrial origin have been downed, acquired, and studied. 


We believe that this is something which is of extreme importance because one cannot 
consider that covert programs — having spent hundreds of billions of dollars over the decades on 
research and development, so-called "reverse engineering" or "back engineering" extraterrestrial 
technologies — have not had significant breakthroughs. The testimony will show that in fact we 
have: That we have had breakthroughs that have trickled out to our society in the form of certain 
advances in electronics, materials, and sciences. However, the central breakthrough dealing with 
the physics of the quantum vacuum space — the so-called "zero-point energy" phenomenon, as 
well as antigravity and electrogravitic propulsion — has been withheld from our society. In 
addition, programs studying extraterrestrial technologies and extraterrestrial life forms are 
projects that are on going to this day. This is something that would be of great importance to the 
world and the scientific community, but more importantly it is of great importance to our public 
officials who, we know, have not been briefed adequately on this subject. 


Testimony of Astronaut Gordon Cooper 


1999 


[We are grateful to Mr. Fox for sharing this interview with us.] 


Gordon Cooper was one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts and the last 
American to fly into space alone. In his testimony he recounts how he observed UFOs 
flying in the same formation as his fighter group over the skies of Germany These 
UFOs made maneuvers that could not be done by conventional fighters. He felt they 
must have be under intelligent control to communicate with one another due to the type 
of maneuvers they were mimicking. At another time, while filming conventional 
aircraft performing precision landings, a saucer flew directly overhead and landed 
ahead of them on a dry lakebed. The entire event was filmed including detailed close- 
ups. The film was sent back to Washington and was never returned. 


GC: Gordon Cooper JF: James Fox 


GC: These objects [UFOs] kept coming over flying in the same kind of formation that we fly 
in our fighters while we were flying in Germany. We were flying F-86’s. They would come over 
and do the same maneuvers that we made except every once in a while one of them would go zip, 
and make a maneuver that you can’t do in a conventional fighter. 


What started it was that the weatherman was tracking a weather balloon and he saw these 
objects with his binoculars. That started people getting out and looking at them and we decided 
to put some airplanes out and see what they were. But we couldn’t get to them. They were 




165 






higher and faster. So we couldn’t tell whether they were large and far away or smaller and closer 
in. It was difficult to gauge exactly what their size was. 


[Astronaut Gordon Cooper and the others know what weather balloons resemble and these 
UFOs were not “weather balloons ”, as the absurd government claims have maintained for over 
50 years. SG] 


JF : Were they in formation? 


GC: They were definitely in formation. 


JF : What year was this? 


GC: In 1951. 


JF: Do you think the Russians had that kind of technology back then [that could do this]? 


GC: No. 


JF: You definitely determined that they were objects that were under intelligent control? 


GC: Well, yes. They weren’t just random. They were flying fighter formations very 
definitely under control. 


JF : Can you describe what they looked like? 


GC: They were just typical saucer shaped, double saucer shaped, and metallic looking. I 
think they were definitely piloted vehicles. Each one of them had a pilot in it. I think they were 
very definitely in communication with one another because they would make a turn such that they 
had to be in communication to be coordinated. One would zip off to the side, do a lateral 
maneuver off to the side. . . 


Later at Edwards Air Force Base I was having some of the cameramen film precision 
landings and we were right on the edge of a dry lake. A saucer flew right over them, put down 
three landing gears, and landed out on the dry lakebed. They went out there with their cameras 
. . . towards the UFO. It lifted off, put the gear back in the well, and flew off at a very high rate of 
speed and disappeared. 


So while I was going through all of the regulation books and finding out the number to call in 
Washington to report this, I had the cameraman go over and develop the film. By the time they 
got back with the developed film I had higher and higher and higher level officers talking to me. 
Finally, a Colonel told me that when the film arrived on my desk to put it in a courier file. There 
would be a courier there at my office and they would arrange for him to fly in our base airplane 
back to Washington with these films. [The Colonel said] to not run prints, etc., etc., etc. So we 
stuck them in the courier packets. 


JF : Did you watch the film? 


GC: We didn’t have a chance to run it. I had a chance to hold it up to the window to look at 
it. It was certainly good film. 




166 






JF: Were there close-up shots? 


GC: Good close-up shots. Nothing like I had ever seen. 


JF: Was the vehicle in the close-ups like the vehicles you had seen? 


GC: About the same shape. Double inverted saucer shape. It didn’t have wings on it or 
anything. It was pretty much the same shape [as the ones we saw in Germany]. 


Well, at the time this happened I was involved in research and development and doing very 
classified projects at the task center. I knew that we didn’t have any vehicles [like that] at that 
time. I am 99.9% sure that the Russians didn’t have any of that type either. At that point in time 
there was no doubt in my mind that it was made someplace other than here on Earth. But you 
send it [the evidence] on just like you are told to do and you do what they tell you to do. At the 
time I was working on a little program that nobody knew about and we weren’t allowed to 
discuss it with our family or anybody. That was the U-2 program. It [this event] was in the same 
category [of secrecy] really. I don’t know why [it is kept so secret]. In my opinion, I thi nk they 
were worried it would panic the public if they knew that someone had vehicles that had this kind 
of performance way back right after WWII. So they started telling lies about it. Then I think 
they had to cover it with another lie, tell another lie to cover their first lie and now they don’t 
know how to get out of it. Now it is going to be so embarrassing to admit that all of these 
administrations have told a lot of untruths. It will be embarrassing to get out of it. 


JF : Do you think they want to get it out? 


GC: I think that basically each and every President would probably like to get out of it, come 
clean on the deal and not have to continue to tell untruths. Eventually something is going to 
happen that will make all of them have egg all over their faces and they are going to have to 
admit that they haven’t been truthful at all. 


JF : Who has kept this secret? 


GC: Well, somebody has kept it pretty secret for quite a while, haven’t they? 


[When asked about meeting with the United Nations Secretary General about UFOs in the 
1970s, Gordon Cooper says:] Kurt Waldheim was really interested in the subject and he thought 
that it would be a good idea to form a committee and to do the investigation at that level [of the 
UN] but nothing ever got done. It was typical of the U.N. They talked a good game but they 
never get around to doing anything about it. 


By NASA’s own figures there are some 400,000 other planets out there that could be 
habitable. I just can’t believe that God would inhabit this one planet and then leave all of those 
others bare. In my personal opinion, I just feel that we are out here in the hinterland of all of the 
galaxies. We are way out in the sticks. All of these other galaxies are closer to one another. I 
think they probably have a lot of travel to and from one another. Once in a while we will get a 
few travelers or stragglers or come through from distant other galaxies. 


I wrote a letter [to the UN] suggesting that we form a group at the U.N. level and start 
gathering information around the world and let it be handled and coordinated at that level. There 
were a lot of countries that had information. There are a lot of countries like Russia is now. The 
government of Russia right now works directly with the civilian UFO groups. You have 




167 






differences from country to country to country. But we should have all of this information come 
together and be correlated in one place. 


Just think about what we could do from a technical point of view: some of them may be 
remotely operated. They may be radio-controlled so to speak like what we call unmanned or 
unpiloted vehicles. I think that some of them undoubtedly have crews in them and in my opinion 
I think those people are probably very similar to us. I think definitely there was something other 
than a weather balloon that crashed at Roswell. 


JF : Do you think the truth was lost? 


GC: I think the truth has been very submerged in all of the lies that have been told. 


JF: Do you think they would cover up one of those saucers that you saw? 


GC: Very likely. I would like to think that they reverse-engineered it, did something of 
benefit with it. That would be the logical thing to do. 


JF : Did you know where that footage went of the flying saucer that landed on the tarmac? 


GC: It went to Washington; that is all I know. 


JF : Did you ever keep in touch with anybody about it, or discuss it? 


GC: How would I keep in touch with anybody? There is no way in the military or within the 
government of keeping track of something that is classified unless you are directly involved in it 
and I was not. I had no way of knowing what happened. 


JF: Was it included in part of the Project Blue Book investigation? 


GC: No, it was not. And that was one of the complaints that I had about Project Blue Book. 
In my opinion, Project Blue Book was totally a whitewash. 


[Other high level witnesses such as Colonel Brown and Dr. Wood have concluded the same: 
Blue Book was a PR whitewash while the real research went on elsewhere. SGJ 


There were a number of other things that I had occasion to know about that were not included 
in the Blue Book either. In my opinion, I think they are coming from some other planet. There is 
no doubt in my mind. I think they are for real and I think that eventually we will find out that 
there is regular travel to this Earth from other planets. Who was flying these vehicles we saw? I 
think there were extraterrestrial pilots flying them, no doubt about it. 


[When asked about ‘black’ or invisible projects, Gordon Cooper says:] That was one reason 
that we did the U-2 Program the way we did it. We had put no classifications on that program 
because when you classify a program then a Congressman or a Senator thinks they can go out and 
tell all of the details. They are privileged to be able to do that. They trample all over security and 
tell the details to whomever they want to. We didn’t classify it at all until Gary Powers was shot 
down. The world really didn’t know about the U-2. At least in the United States we didn’t know 
about them. 




168 






[ Cooper and others have told me of projects beyond classification and Colonel Corso spoke 
of the E. T. projects as being conveyed ‘brain to brain Extremely tightly held unacknowledged 
projects such as those dealing with UFOs really are beyond top-secret and access is blocked to 
Congress and the public. 56'] 


I thi nk we have a lot of potential learning from them [the extraterrestrials]. If we can just set 
up the schedule of how to go about doing it. They can come land in my backyard anytime. If 
they want to come land in my backyard I would welcome them. I think they are just the same as 
we are just a little higher, a little better, and a little faster. 


I have a good friend who is a commercial airline pilot and he has had about three different 
occasions where a UFO has pulled up right alongside his wing and stayed in formation with him. 
He is in a major airline. The airline has a policy that their crews aren’t allowed to talk about 
UFOs. 




Testimony of Brigadier General Steven Lovekin, Esq. 


October 2000 


Brigadier General Lovekin entered the military in 1958. In 1959 he joined the White 
House Army Signaling Agency and served under President Eisenhower and then under 
President Kennedy with an above top secret clearance. He was familiar with Project 
Blue Book and related how that project documented highly scientific and specific UFO 
cases from very reliable sources. They reviewed photos taken from Air Force pilots, 
Marine Air Corps pilots, and some foreign pilots and multiple reports of radar lock-ons. 


He was also shown a piece of metallic debris taken from the Roswell crash. While 
working under President Eisenhower, he discovered that Eisenhower had a keen interest 
in UFO’s, but that Eisenhower came to realize that he had lost control of the subject. 


SL: Brigadier General Steven Lovekin SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


SL: I graduated from the George School, which is a private co-educational prep school in 
Philadelphia, in 1958 and went into the military. After going through advanced infantry training, 
I was transferred to the Pentagon where I worked for the Radio Frequency Engineering Office. I 
finished there and then joined the White House Army Signaling Agency in May of 1959. I served 
under Eisenhower from May of 1959 until he got out of office and then I served under Kennedy 
until I left the service in August of 1961. 


My job was to learn to deal with code [and code breaking]. In the process of dealing with 
that I learned a lot about Project Bluebook [which deals with UFOs]. Bluebook was discussed 
quite openly in the office. Sections of Bluebook were opened for discussion. There were other 
matters as well that were brought to our attention: One afternoon when we were just about ready 
to finish up training, Colonel Holomon brought out a piece of what appeared to be metallic 
debris; it looked like a yardstick. It had inscriptions on it. And the inscriptions were pointed out 
by Colonel Holomon to each one of us who were in that class (I think that there were six or seven 
of us at that time). We were told that this object came from matters connected to Operation 
Bluebook. 


What they were trying to say was, “Look, we have this physical evidence to go along with 
what you have seen in Bluebook; we have now been able to get our hands on and show you this 
material” and that is what he did. He went on to further explain that this was the material that had 
come from a New Mexico crash in 1947 of an extraterrestrial craft and that was discussed at 




169 






length. If I am not mistaken, we spent perhaps another hour or so discussing this. The next day it 
was discussed again. He did not describe what the bodies looked like, although they did discuss 
the fact that there were bodies, extraterrestrial bodies. There were either three or five bodies... 
three or five stands out in my mind as the number that was taken. One was partially alive at the 
time that this happened and I do not know what may have happened to him after that. 


The Air Force at that time was very, very much concerned with Bluebook and there were 
strict regulations involving anything that had to do with the reporting of UFOs or talking about a 
UFO. If you wanted to ruin your career, it was explained to us, the thing that would do this the 
fastest was to talk about UFO’s. I was enlisted then and was the lowest thing down on the totem 
pole. We were being groomed for Top Secret and above, and that we certainly would not be 
cleared for any kind of confidential material should this information be released. 


We saw an awful lot. We saw a lot of pictures of UFOs. Some pictures that I saw I thi nk 
were maybe a little bit better than the ones you see today. These pictures of UFOs were taken by 
Air Force pilots. 


SG: So you saw official pictures the military took of UFO’s? 


SL: Oh, indeed they did. Yes. Not only did the Air Force take these pictures but also some 
were taken by civilian pilots — and some were taken by Marine Air Corps pilots and some were 
foreign. It was made quite clear that there were a number of others that were in place in other 
agencies that were being used at that time that were not being put in the Bluebook. I inferred 
from that that perhaps those pictures were better than the pictures that they were showing us. I 
think that Colonel Holomon gave that impression to everybody in the class. 


[See the testimony of Colonel Charles Brown of Project Grudge who also confirms that the 
really significant evidence was compartmented outside of Blue Book and in some cases even 
Grudge. SG] 


This piece of an extraterrestrial craft was a grayish foil-like material maybe eight to ten 
inches long or so. It seemed giant-like because it was the first time that I had ever seen anything 
like this before and all eyes were just peeled on that particular thing. And when he told us what it 
was it was frightening. It was eerie. You could have heard a pin drop in the room when it was 
first mentioned. 


SG: And what did he tell you it was? 


SL: Well, he said that it had been taken from one of the ET craft that had crashed in New 
Mexico and that it had been taken from a box of materials that the military was working on. They 
didn’t use the word “reverse engineering” at that time but it was something similar to reverse 
engineering that they felt like they needed to work on and it was going to take years to do this. I 
do remember that at the Army Engineers at Ft. Belvoir, they were doing a lot of experimentation 
and that surprised me. It surprised me an awful lot. 


The inscriptions looked like hieroglyphics. It is hard to describe hieroglyphics but if you 
have ever seen any ancient Egyptian writings you will know that the hieroglyphics were animated 
in some form and these appeared to be animated. If I knew the code that was supposed to be used 
to find out how this language was to be interpreted then we could understand it. The writing was 
very expressive, you could tell it was expressive. 




170 






[Lovekin explained at another time that his group in the Pentagon was shown this item as an 
example of advanced, difficult to break code. SGJ 


He had a stainless steel box with a lock on it almost like a carpenter’s box but maybe bigger. 
And that is where he got this from and that is where he put it back. And I gathered that was not 
the only thing that was in that box. But that is the only thing that he did show. This occurred in 
the Radio Frequency Engineering Office. 


At the Pentagon, you have to remember, we had one instructor, a Lieutenant Colonel. And 
his job was to not only teach us but to make us believers as well and that is when he produced 
that piece of material from what appeared to be a stainless steel box. It was maybe a kind of a 
dusty gray like-foil and it looked like it may have been burned on a grill. He indicated that that 
was not the only piece of information that he had and the only object that he had. He had several 
others. Maybe the whole box was filled. I don’t know, but that is the only piece that he took out 
to show us. And the reason he did this was to make sure that we understood we were dealing 
with something that was totally out of context from what we had been dealing with earlier but 
that we might be dealing with in the future. I think he intended for us to know that our futures 
were going to be dealing with this subject matter more and more. 


He did describe the inscriptions as being symbols of instruction and that is as far as he would 
go but he did infer that the instructions, whatever they might have been, were something that was 
important enough for the military to keep working on a constant basis. He made it quite clear that 
this was something that was of grave importance. We were in the basement of the Pentagon and 
in those days. That was in 1959; there was a tremendous amount of security there in that area of 
the Pentagon. And anybody who has worked there knows what I am talking about. You could 
almost carry on an entire war in the basement and no one else would know what was going on on 
the floors above. That is how secure it was. 


I was working on top-secret clearance. I had gotten a secret clearance and by the time I 
finished the school I had been given a top-secret one but I was given one step higher than that 
because at that time they didn’t have a clearance specifically dealing with this (UFO) problem. If 
you dealt with a problem you got a Q Clearance, which was a nuclear clearance. Maybe later on 
they decided that they were going to change that but I remembered that that was the big question, 
“How are we going to give security clearances to these people who have been through this 
course?” 


There were probably 1,500 reported cases at that time that were eligible to be put in 
Bluebook. The findings that were put in there were highly scientific. This information was 
information that would never get out to anyone else but it was designed for the use of particular 
military personnel. So what was there was extremely exact and specific. These cases were as 
bona fide as they possibly could be. They were talking about people who had sterling reputations 
either in the military or in the civilian capacity of some form or another but they were not taking 
any loose cannons. This was information they thought was extremely accurate. 


There were stories about radar lock on. Several of those stories came out of Ohio at Wright 
Patterson Air Force Base but several others came from California, Texas, and Washington from 
what I can recall. I would estimate that there probably were between two and three hundred cases 
of radar lock on [with UFOs]. That is why those cases were in there because they were authentic. 


I was told that the material they showed us came from the New Mexico site but there were 
other sites and there were other crashes of ET craft. They did not say where. They were not 




171 






pinpointed but it was made quite clear that that was not the only site that they had gathered 
information from and also material. 


[See the testimony of A. H., Clifford Stone, et al. SGJ 


The Wright Patterson Air Force Base was brought up on a number of occasions. Apparently 
there were more lock-ons at Wright Patterson than at any other Air Force Base. Edwards Air 
Force Base was mentioned as an experimental station. When I say mentioned, in that context I 
mean Edwards was involved in testing whatever ET materials they found. It was said that that 
was what was being done. Radar lock-ons had come from Edwards Air Force Base [too]. 


[See the testimony of Chuck Sorrells regarding the 1965 multiple UFO radar lock-on at 
Edwards. SGJ 


I should note that I was there in the Pentagon at the same time that Colonel Philip Corso was 
there. 1 did not have any more contact with the subject matter of UFO’s until after I came in 
contact with the President [Eisenhower]. 1 had heard that he did an awful lot of doodling on 
paper, on notebook paper, particularly at conferences that he wasn’t particularly happy with. He 
would take to doodling and one of the things that he did was doodle various forms of UFOs. 


1 never saw Kennedy do this but President Eisenhower did it, and he did it in my presence as 
well as several other people who were attached to the White House Army Signaling Agency 
where I was assigned. When I first came to work for the President 1 didn’t meet him until 
probably a month and a half after I had been on board. At that time it was a very formal meeting. 
Right after that I got an opportunity to travel a little bit with the President. We did some traveling 
towards Florida. And 1 had an opportunity to see him under fire, as it were, and how he handled 
certain people that he didn’t like and when he did that he would doodle. He was probably one of 
the world’s best doodlers and everybody would kid him about it. I wouldn’t, but I wasn’t in a 
position to do so but the higher officers would kind of say little things every now and then. He 
would just smile and keep on doodling. 


Well, on some of those occasions he had just been given messages or had been given 
information pertaining to sightings or information about UFO’s and 1 know that for a fact because 
I was in the COM Center and I saw that information. When he would get these reports it would 
excite him. He was just a kid. He would get so excited and give orders like D-day was 
happening all over again. He was very, very interested in the shapes and sizes of the UFOs and 
what made them go. 


The White House itself has a huge COM Center in the basement. It is run by the Air Force 
but the Army is there. Every place where the President would go including Camp David has a 
COM Center that deals specifically with presidential traffic. The information would be conveyed 
usually by a Warrant Officer. Our Chief Warrant Officer had been in the Army for probably 30 
years or more. When he would get that kind of information [about UFOs] he sometimes would 
close himself off and he would be alone for a while and then he would call in whomever he 
needed to call in. But dealing specifically with UFOs, I can only remember on one or two 
occasions where that information came directly from the COM Center to him. Most of the time it 
seemed to come indirectly to the President. 


Most of that material when it is passed through, it is “for eyes only,” and that means that if 
you have a direct interest in it then you will see it. If you don’t then you won’t. You knew that 
there were sightings of UFOs. You knew that there were new findings. If you had been around 




172 






the President long enough you could just judge by his expressions what he was reading and what 
interested him. It was just something that you knew from being around him. 


SG: He showed particular interest in this subject? 


SL: Very, very much interest. In fact, I would say that this subject was probably among his 
highest of interests at that time. Y es indeed. 


Reports about these UFOs were not terribly rare. It happened quite frequently. I wouldn’t 
dare say how many times but it happened frequently. 


What happened was not one particular agency could handle dealing with the entire subject 
matter, dealing with the engineering portion, to sighting information, to reporting it into 
Bluebook. The whole process of dealing with the UFO phenomenon could not be handled 
anymore by one agency and so in order to keep it alive it was given to various parts of the 
government to work on. And I guess that they thought that they could also keep the intelligence 
factor as secret as possible by giving agencies a little bit here and a little bit there. And that type 
of compartmentalization oftentimes is done with matters like this. 


But what happened was that Eisenhower got sold out. Without him knowing it he lost control 
of what was going on with the entire UFO situation. In his last address to the nation I think he 
was telling us that the Military Industrial Complex would stick you in the back if you were not 
totally vigilant. And I think that he felt like he had not been vigilant. I think he felt like he 
trusted too many people. And Eisenhower was a trusting man. He was a good man. And I think 
that he realized that all of a sudden this matter is going into the control of corporations that could 
very well act to the detriment of this country. 


This frustration, from what I can remember, went on for months. He realized that he was 
losing control of the UFO subject. He realized that the phenomenon or whatever it was that we 
were faced with was not going to be in the best hands. As far as I can remember, that was the 
expression that was used, “It is not going to be in the best hands”. That was a real concern. And 
so it has turned out to be. 


It had been discussed with me on numerous occasions what could happen to me militarily if I 
discussed this. I would say that the government has done as good a job enforcing secrecy through 
the installation of abject fear as they have done with anything within the memory of modem man. 
I really believe they have done a job. One older officer discussed with me what possibly could 
happen if there was a revelation. He was talking about being erased and I said, “Man, what do 
you mean erased?” And he said, “Yes, you will be erased-disappear.” And I said, “How do you 
know all this?” And he said, “I know. Those threats have been made and carried out. Those 
threats started way back in 1947. The Army Air Force was given absolute control over how to 
handle this. This being the biggest security situation that this country has ever dealt with and 
there have been some erasures.” 


I know he was very convincing when he said this and he was in a position to know. He was 
much older than I and he had been involved with the CIA. He knew what he was talking about. 
He wasn’t kidding. So I guess fear has done it. I don’t care what kind of a person you are. I 
don’t care how strong or courageous you are. It would be a very fearful situation because from 
what Matt [this older officer] said, “They will go after not only you. They will go after your 
family.” Those were his words. And so I can only say that the reason that they have managed to 




173 






keep it under wraps for so long is through fear. They are very selective about how they pull 
someone out to make an example of. And I know that that has been done. 


In this country during the early 1950s, numerous bases were built that would allow the 
President and Congress and VIPs to go in case of attack. That is to maintain the government to 
function and so forth. Mt. Weather, Virginia was one of those. Ft. Ritchie, Maryland was 
another. Camp David, Maryland was another. There was another one in West Virginia at that 
time which we only knew as Concrete. That was the code name. Mt. Weather, for example, is 
underground. It is designed specifically to be impenetrable, as far as we knew, from atomic 
weaponry. When I first went on tour there, I was told about special equipment that they had. We 
had to go through all of these places where the President would go just to familiarize ourselves on 
what to do and how to do it. And there was equipment up there to deal specifically with the UFO 
problem. There was a standard operating instruction on what to do. UFOs had been sighted 
around Mt. Weather not only on one or two occasions but on numerous occasions from what I 
understand. They also have been sighted in West Virginia at the place that I referred to as 
Concrete. 


We have gotten so much momentum with the secrecy that has shrouded this subject matter 
that we are liable to wind up in a big, fat crash. And granted I am not privy to the things that I 
would like to be privy to but as I see it when you propagate a lie and propagate a fear of the truth, 
you put yourself in a very vulnerable position. 


They have been keeping this secret for a long time so evidently they have known how to do 
it. But at some point in time, because of the interest I think that the media has taken, there will be 
people coming out speaking that have never thought about speaking before, particularly about 
Nellis and what has been going on there. And you can’t create anything positive through fear. 
Fear only degenerates the human soul and the human psyche, the human mind if you will. 


I think secrecy has been enforced because what would be revealed would totally destroy an 
economy that was designed by certain capitalists in this country a long, long time ago to maintain 
them and their corporations from here to eternity. I think oil has a special interest in seeing that it 
maintains its position where it is, regardless of what kind of pollution or disastrous side effects 
may have occurred and continue to occur. 


I think that what we are dealing with is certain electromagnetic devices that are powered by 
sources that we just don’t quite understand as of yet - well, we are certainly not advertising them 
anyway. But these devices would generate free power. And free power would be something that 
coiporations panic about. I think this government panics about it. Looking at it from a 
governmental point of view: How are you going to tax free power? And from everyone that I 
have talked to who knows something about this subject matter, they do believe that the sources of 
energy that keep these vehicles in propulsion are sources of energy that are just as free as free 
could be. They don’t cause any harm to the environment. They don’t cause any footprints to be 
left anywhere. . . 


Given the fact that we are having a real question about how to deal with the high price of 
Arab oil right now, Bush as you know, is trying to insist that we go into some of the arctic 
regions and take more oil out. I for one don’t see that as an answer. With the global warming 
situation being what it is, that would just be another nail in our coffin. But at some point in time 
we are going to have to share this information that would allow us to have free energy. The 
government knows about this. It is foolish for them to try to make the rest of us look like 
imbeciles and say that this can’t happen. Well, it can happen. 




174 






The question was, "Did I hear that we had ever picked up signals which could not be 
identified or, if they could be identified, were they coming in from strange craft that perhaps had 
put us under surveillance?” Yes I did hear that. I heard that from at least five or six reports that 
wound up in Bluebook. In fact, several of the reports had come in through pilots’ radios. So 
whatever intelligence we were dealing with at that time knew how to deal with us. They knew 
how to communicate with us and we knew they were of extraterrestrial origin. 


[See also the testimony of John Maynard and others.] 


Testimony of Merle Shane McDow, US Navy Atlantic Command 


October 2000 


Mr. McDow entered the Navy in 1978 and gained a top-secret, Special Compartmented 
Intelligence (SCI) clearance with a Zebra Stripes. He was assigned to the Atlantic 
Operational Support Facility, Atlantic Command, then under Admiral Trane. Mr. 
McDow was present when a UFO was tracked by radar and seen by pilots visually 
moving at high speed up and down the Atlantic coast. The Command Center was put on 
Zebra alert and Admiral Trane gave the order to force down the UFO. Mr. McDow 
discusses the threats, intimidation and confiscation of logbooks that occurred after the 
event. 


MM: Merle McDow SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


MM: I enlisted in the United States Navy in August of 1978, and was assigned to the USS 
America, where unfortunately I sustained some injuries on the flight deck while performing my 
duties. I then went to CINC-ANT Fleet, Atlantic Command Support Facility in Norfolk, Virginia 
on Hampton Boulevard. I was directly assigned to AOSF, Division 22; we were a group of about 
eleven people then. We were directly responsible for briefing Admiral Trane who was the 
Commander in Chief, Atlantic Command. We briefed him on current military operations around 
the world, what the Soviets were doing that day, what they had done the night before, etc. 


AOSF is just an acronym for Atlantic Operational Support Facility and CINC-ANT Fleet is 
another acronym for Commander in Chief-Atlantic Fleet, which Admiral Trane was at the time. 
Everyone on the eastern seaboard answered to this man. 


After a six month wait I got a top-secret, Special Compartmented Intelligence (SCI) 
clearance, with a zebra stripe identification badge, which permitted access to all facilities on the 
base at all times. I had unrestricted access to any facility at any time as well as the Command 
Center to which it was specifically assigned. My station was up on the mezzanine, or the third 
deck as we called it, over the Command Center. My job was to make sure that any incoming and 
outgoing audio/video information that came into the Command Center was recorded and duly 
logged for reference in case they needed it later. I recorded all of the video and audio - 
everything that is going on- even when they called a Condition Zebra alert. This was generally a 
training exercise that they would announce beforehand by saying, “This is a drill. This is a drill. 
Set Condition Zebra.” and unauthorized personnel would then be escorted out of the Command 
Center if they didn’t already know that they had to leave. 


Condition Zebra is the highest level of alert that the Navy has - or had at that time - for 
generally dealing with global nuclear threats, in particular the Soviets. Soviet Bearcats were 
routinely patrolling up and down the eastern seaboard watching what we were doing. And we 




175 






would set a Condition Zebra if we had the need to put planes in the air to escort the bearcats out 
of the area if they were a little too close to our airspace or if they had ships in the area that were 
suspicious acting, for instance. Or we would have a drill, for instance, when they would get out 
the MAD books to wage nuclear war. The Watch Officer and the Junior Watch Officer, the JOD, 
had keys to a safe and they would get these books out called the MAD books - Mutual Assured 
Destruction - and they would have the codes that were necessary to transmit to the submarines if 
necessary, to launch a nuclear strike. And not many people were allowed in the Command Center 
when that was going on because they actually did use the codes and so forth. I am sure the 
Soviets and any others person who were enemies of the United States would like to get their 
hands on that information. The Zebra Classification - well, without that you were not allowed 
authorized access to these facilities during this drill and the Zebra Drill was specifically for the 
highest level of top-secret information that was being exchanged between the Command Center 
and ships and/or submarines at sea. 


Well, about this incident: The day started out pretty routine. I would say this was around the 
first week or two in May [1981] to the best of my knowledge. So everything was going along 
pretty routinely when they dimmed the lights (they did this first in the Command Center when 
they set a Condition Zebra alert). Most of the time when they set these drills they would say, 
“This is a drill. This is a drill. Set Condition Zebra.” But they turned the lights down this time 
and they didn’t say, “This is a drill.” And the Watch Officer and the Junior Watch Officer looked 
at each other and told some of their assistants to verify whether or not this was a drill as the event 
was taking place. And the early warning system- I believe it came in from an Air Force base in 
Greenland or Nova Scotia at that time- said that we had contact with an unidentified flying object 
that had entered our air space. And they said that this was not a drill and so it was treated with 
the utmost promptness and everyone started running around like mad once they realized that it 
wasn’t a drill. It took on a whole different air. 


Within moments of that, the Watch Officer summoned Admiral Trane over to the Command 
Center because this was a little out of his area of authorization for lack of a better way to put it. It 
required Admiral Trane’s oversight. And within minutes Admiral Trane was rushed into the 
Command Center into his viewing booth that he had right under the Mezzanine there and the first 
thing that Admiral Trane wanted to know was how many contacts we had, where they were, 
which direction were they going, and were the Soviets responding. Because we knew that it 
wasn’t the Soviets that had entered our airspace. That was verified from the get go, from the 
start. 


At that point, when Admiral Trane found out that it wasn’t the Soviets and that he wanted to 
know were the Soviets responding to this threat also, that was the moment that he gave 
authorization to put two planes up to go see what this thing was. And that was when the chasing 
up and down the eastern seaboard began. We launched planes from as far north as Greenland to 
NAS (Naval Air Station) Oceania. This object, we had it on radar- this event lasted almost an 
hour. You could hear the pilots live voice transmissions being piped into the Command Center. 
And they had visual confirmation of the object and made descriptions of the object. Pilots were 
able to close a couple of times and were able to see that the object was not an aircraft that we 
were familiar with- it was nothing that we had and nothing that the Soviets had. That was 
determined very quickly. This vehicle or whatever it was that they were chasing showed very 
erratic flight up and down the coast, quick flight. 


It would actually be off the coast of Maine, for instance, and would leave the airspace in that 
area so quickly that we were having to have planes coming out of Dover Air Force base just to 
pick it up just in what seemed like moments. Well, I know for a fact that it would take an F-14 




176 






probably thirty minutes to traverse that much distance but this object, whatever it was, was just 
popping up. One minute it was here and the next minute bam, it was down several hundred miles 
down the coast, just playing tag. 


[See the accounts of Dr. Paul Czysz, Commander Bethune, and many others regarding this 
type of non-linear and extraordinary propulsion. SG] 


It did go all the way down to a point off the coast of Florida around Mayport, the Naval Air 
station that we have down there at Cecil Field. And that was before it turned and took what 
would have been an easterly direction from our vantage point back up towards the Azores before 
we actually lost track of it. 


During all this, we were using satellites called the KH-11 satellites that we use for 
information gathering. And this satellite did have a very high capability of taking really good 
photographs of things literally within a few feet of the ground from a vantage point out in outer 
space. And they were trying to get the KH- 1 1 satellite to track this thing to get some photographs 
of it. The photographs that we did get back in the Command Center later on came from the first 
encounters that the planes had with it off of the northern North American coast. They did get 
close enough to get some photographs taken that were later brought over to the Command Center. 


Well, from the photograph I remember the shape was more like a cylinder; it was quite flat 
and long. It had abrupt ends. The ends didn’t taper down like most aircraft. It just came to an 
abrupt end and it did appear to be reflecting sunlight and you could clearly tell that it was 
metallic. And the pilots were giving information such as it was not leaving behind a vapor trail, 
no discemable lights or markings on it, no cockpit windows or doors, nothing like that. It just 
seemed to be one solid thing whatever it was. 


What was really bugging Admiral Trane, what was really driving him nuts, was this thing 
absolutely had complete control of the situation and could be anywhere that it wanted to be in a 
matter of seconds. One minute we were closing on it off the coast of Maine and the next minute 
it is in Norfolk heading south towards Florida. And it is all that we can do to get the early 
warning radar up and down the coast to watch for this thing as it just had it’s day with us. 
Admiral Trane and his staff were quite concerned about it to say the least. They were quite 
concerned especially once they found out that it wasn’t the Russians and it wasn’t us and he 
wasn’t aware of anyone else who had the technology to build such a craft that could move about 
so easily and so quickly. I remember distinctly looking over the rail of the mezzanine and just 
watching complete chaos break out because of their inability to keep an eye on this thing, 
whatever it was. 


The UFO was moving around so erratically and so quickly up and down the coast. . . They 
were trying to notify as many commands as they could up and down the coast to track this thing 
or get a plane up. Admiral Trane was scrambling and authorizing planes just left and right up and 
down the whole eastern seaboard to try and cut this thing off and to get some planes from the 
north and south to literally track it and to force it down. It was clear that they wanted to recover 
it, to force it down by whatever means possible. 


The order was given by Admiral Trane to try and get this object forced down out of the sky if 
at all possible, by whatever means possible. After they found out and knew for certainty that it 
wasn’t the Russians, they didn’t care who it was as long as it wasn’t the Russians. They didn’t 
care who it was or where it was from. They wanted it and they wanted it bad. 




177 






The information coming in from the Command Center was being relayed to us from different 
radar sites that we have up and down the eastern coast that watch our airspace. 


I would describe the officers as being scared. Yeah, they were scared to put it in a nutshell. 
Admiral Trane was usually a very calm man of very mild demeanor a really nice fellow. And 
you never really saw him lose control or raise his voice or get excited about anything. But this 
really got him upset to say the least. I would say that was the impression that I had from most of 
the officers there - they were just as much in the dark and scared as everybody else. 


They would actually not track it down the coast. It would just appear hundreds of miles from 
the last sighting. And the pilots said that one moment it was there and the next moment it wasn’t. 
And I think that that was one of the things that really had Admiral Trane’s hackles up because he 
didn’t have any control of it or the situation. This thing just had a mind of its own and was 
causing such an uproar up and down the eastern coast. Admiral Trane was ultimately responsible 
at that time and 1 am sure it was stressing him out quite a great deal. You could tell by his tone of 
voice. You could just tell by listening to him that he was very, very, very worried. 


But on radar we were keeping track of it one minute and then we would absolutely lose it, 
and then we would pick it up. It would just appear as an unauthorized vehicle in military 
airspace. And trust me, the military knows where every commercial flight is at all times. We 
knew where every plane we had was at all times. We knew where every commercial flight 
coming through our airspace was at all times. There just wasn’t anything going on that we didn’t 
know about it. All the planes that were scrambled were put up off of the shore facilities- the 
Navy has shore facilities, the Naval Air station for example, Oceania. 


When you set a Condition Zebra, whether it is a drill or not people are not authorized to be 
there who do not have a Zebra Access Badge. It is a zebra striped area on your clearance badge. 
They have to leave the Command facility and we have Marines stationed inside and outside the 
building there that were under orders to shoot any unauthorized personnel that remained in the 
Command Center during one of these episodes. That was for the interest of national security. 


For example, one time a Condition Zebra was called and the Marine comes in and wants to 
know what is going on. Is this a drill or so forth? They have got orders to start shooting people. 
And I know because I actually got the Junior OOD’s attention and said, “Hey, you guys need to 
tell this guy something. He is ready to start shooting people.” They haven’t told him to stand 
down yet, which he did. And I remember wanting to just get the hell out of there because he 
came in there and he said, “You have got a minute or two. If I don’t find out something”- he was 
ready to come in there and start shooting people, destroying evidence. 


When this event, as I refer to it, ended, the object that we had been chasing up and down the 
seaboard headed out over the Atlantic, over the Azores. I do remember them saying that it had 
pulled up at a 66 degree angle as it approached the Azores like this, and it just pulled up at a 66 
degree angle without slowing down or anything and left the atmosphere and was gone into space. 
It just took off into space and was gone like that (snaps fingers). I mean it just absolutely left. 
Y ou are talking about something that covered thousands of miles in a blink of an eye and it was 
just gone and it just left everyone sitting around scratching their heads. “Gee whiz, I wonder 
what that was.” 


It was comical in a way to see how the vast military might of the United States was put on its 
knees by something they had no idea what it was, where it came from, where it was going or 




178 






anything. The only thing that they knew for sure was that it wasn’t the Soviets and they were 
very adamant about finding that out. 


So we secured from Condition Zebra. They turned the lights up. Everyone was sitting 
around talking about it down on the command floor. I am up here by myself on the third deck. 
Admiral Trane is down here in his briefing area. They stayed for a few minutes before they left. 
I made a note of it in my logbook like you had to do. Then I really didn’t give it much more 
thought. 


Later, these two guys came in, in suits. They weren’t in military uniform. They just came in, 
in suits and they had their little badges on but they didn’t have Zebra Striped badges. It was like 
a visitor badge. You could tell that they weren’t regular personnel. And I didn’t know them from 
Tom, Dick, or Harry. 1 had never seen these guys before. So we go downstairs to the first floor 
and there were several little conference rooms and they took me into one that they already set up 
and sat me down- and they had my logbook. They got that and took it down with me. 


These two gentlemen began to question me about this event. They were being pretty rough 
about it to be honest with you. I remember literally putting my hands up and saying, “Wait a 
minute fellows. I’m on your side. Just a minute,” because they were not really nice. They were 
very intimidating and made it quite clear to the point that nothing that was seen, heard, or 
witnessed, that transpired was to leave this building. “You are not to say a word about it to your 
co-workers. And off base, you just forget everything that you may have seen or heard concerning 
this. It didn’t happen.” They were nasty, I guess is a good way to put it. I distinctly remember 
sitting back in my chair and I put my hands up and had to tell these guys, “Wait a minute, we are 
on the same side fellows. We don’t have a problem here.” You got the impression that they 
would do bodily harm to you otherwise, without really coming out and threatening you. You 
could just tell by their tone of voice when someone is saying, “Hey buddy, do what I say or else.” 


If this object had been hostile and wanted to drop weapons or shoot missiles at us, or 
whatever, it would have been very easy for them to do that. There was no question about that. 
We didn’t have anything at that time that could hold a candle to whatever this was. And it just 
had its own free run of our airspace and could do anything it wanted as far as traveling. We did 
not pose any threat to it whatsoever. That was painfully obvious, very much so. I do believe that 
Admiral Trane knew that too and was quite afraid. Just in a word I would say that that old boy 
was just plain scared. 


SG: Whatever happened to the photographs of the UFO? 


MM: That is a really good point that you raised about what happened to the 35 mm slides 
that we had. That is a really good point that you have there because we never got around to 
putting them up on the Telesign [sp] for Admiral Trane to actually view. They were just 
prepared. I can remember her [the technician dealing with the slides] telling me that these two 
men in suits came in, got up all the film developed and undeveloped and all the materials that 
they had with it and the slides. My logbook, I never did see that again. I know that we had a new 
logbook the next day - a brand spanking new one to start with. I don’t know what happened to it 
and nobody really knew what happened to it. 


This technician also said, “These two guys came in here and read us the riot act and wanted 
this, that and the other and rounded up all their stuff and they weren’t real nice.” 




179 






This event went down as just an unidentified flying object. They never did know what it was. 
I remember the Watch Officer and the JOD and the OOD, Officer of the Deck and Junior Officer 
of the Deck, I do remember them looking at each other talking. And I am just hanging my head 
over listening and they are talking to each other about how to put it in their logbook. They just 
said, “Put it down as an unidentified flying object contact and that is it.” 


1 would say that the facilities that actually had this UFO on radar- there were five that I am 
sure of, and that is from Greenland all the way to Florida, and there may be some others that I 
don’t know. I know this because Admiral Trane was giving orders to NAS Oceania, “Let’s get 
some planes up from there, scramble some fighters.” He did make a call for them to alert Dover 
Air Force Base, Patuxent River, Maryland, Cecil Field down in Florida. . . 


When I got out, 1 received an official United States Navy document on the Navy letterhead. 
They gave me this document where for five years it was absolutely out of the question for me to 
leave the country under any circumstances whatsoever. And to leave the state of Virginia I had to 
contact the Roanoke office of the FBI and let them know if I just wanted to cross the state line to 
go into North Carolina. And that was for five years after I was discharged. 


I also wanted to tell you about this member of my wife’s family. Jack Booth is his name. He 
is dead now but he was in the army and he was stationed at Roswell when the Roswell incident 
happened. He was my wife’s uncle- my wife’s mother’s brother. He was from Bluefield, West 
Virginia. He said that when he was just a kid in the army, he was at Roswell (NM) when this 
thing, whatever it was, crashed. And he was there pulling guard duty when they went out to the 
crash site. A truckload of them went to pick debris up and whatnot, and he was there when they 
actually did recover the bodies. He said, “I am telling you that they put little bitty guys in body 
bags and they weren’t humans. They were just little odd-looking fellows. They were nothing 
like a human.” And they put them in body bags and one or two of them were still conscious or 
alive or something like that from the crash. There were actual survivors from this crash 
according to him. 


They were picking up all the little pieces of the craft and he said that they actually put those 
guys down shoulder to shoulder on their hands and knees and went across the debris area picking 
up any little speck and scrap that they had. And they did it for days. He said that they were all 
threatened. He said they just came right out and said, “Look, if you say anything about this you 
might just turn up missing tomorrow.” 


[See the testimony of Glen Dennis, John Weygandt, Brigadier General Lovekin, et al 
regarding such threats. SGJ 


He did say that. They didn’t make any bones about it and came right to the point about 
letting them know how much they wanted to keep this under wraps. He said, “I’m telling you - I 
was there.” 


Another man I met who knew about this subject was John Michael Murphy. He was a 
Marine Corp Corporal when I was in the Navy. He was stationed down there at the security 
barracks at CINC-ANT Fleet. He was part of the security detail there for the base. Murphy 
swore up and down that when he was still in the Marine Corp that he had actually guarded a 
spaceship, an extraterrestrial craft at a facility not far from Dover Air Force Base over in 
Delaware. Knowing Murphy as I did, I would believe him. I would believe Murphy. This would 
have been 1979 maybe, 1980. 




180 






[This testimony is of great significance because the witness had such a high security 
clearance top secret SCI with Zebra stripes and was personally involved in a prolonged 
encounter with an extraterrestrial vehicle for over one hour that was on at least five radar- 
scopes, visually contacted by pilots, etc. It underscores the need for a general disclosure on the 
subject since the dangers to world peace and security resulting from our forces chasing and 
attempting to down such advanced craft are obvious. In briefings that I have done for senior CIA 
and Pentagon officials, often we find these men are not at all adequately informed about the 
subject and might react in a similarly dangerous fashion shown here by Admiral Trane ’s orders 
to down the object. In the vacuum of secrecy, terrible mistakes can be made due to a lack of 
knowledge and perspective. For this reason we continue to call for an ending of secrecy on this 
subject so that our military > and national security leaders can be adequately informed and so 
diplomats and other leaders in society can formulate an appropriate, safe, and peaceful response 
to the extraterrestrial civilizations which are already observing our world. The stakes are too 
high to allow this matter to be the domain of only covert projects or unprepared military leaders. 
The danger here is not from the extraterrestrial vehicles per se but from a lack of knowledge and 
preparation in how to properly deal with their presence. SGJ 


Testimony of Lieutenant Colonel Charles Brown (retired), US Air Force 


October 2000 


After returning from WW II an Air Force hero, Col Brown worked in the Air Force 
Office of Special Investigations. He was assigned to work on Project Grudge where he 
was responsible for investigating UFO’s and came to recognize that on some cases 
there were no viable conventional explanations. He later came to believe that Bluebook 
was a deliberate whitewash to the public. Among others he was privy to reports of cases 
where four independent radars were tracking objects that were traveling 5000 miles an 
hour. 


CB: Lt. Col. Charles Brown SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


CB: I’ m a retired Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Air Force. I spent approximately 
23 years in military service, and the latter seven years as a Senior Foreign Service Officer. In my 
career I spent about 15 years abroad. I started out as an enlisted man in the army in the West 
Virginia National Guard in the fall of 1939 [and] enlisted in the regular U.S. Amy in the Signal 
Corp. in June of 1940 upon graduation from high school. I started training as a pilot in July of 
1942 and was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant pilot in April of ‘43, then trained as a B-17 
pilot aircraft Commander. 


I went to Europe and arrived there in early November of 1943 and commenced combat as a 
B-17 pilot on 13, December, 1943. I flew my 29 th and last complete mission on the 1 1 th of April, 
1944. Combat during this period was fairly severe. I just completed a survey of my 31 attempts 
at missions. And every time we went into the air, we had 235 casualties during those 31 
missions. And I was very fortunate to complete it. . . 


[I was] given a regular Air Force commission in early 1950. I left active duty in the fall of 
‘65 and gave up my promotion to Colonel to accept employment as a Senior Foreign Services 
Officer. I then served seven years with the Agency for International Development. Six of those 
seven years were spent in Southeast Asia as a regional inspector for the Agency. 


Basically, because of my counter-intelligence training and police work in an outfit called Air 
Force Office of Special Investigations, and because I was one of the few pilot trained 




181 






investigators, I ended up doing a lot of investigations of aircraft, unusual aircraft accidents in 
which sabotage was suspected. And as a consequence became acquainted with some outstanding 
scientists and worked with the Air Technical Intelligence Center on a project called Grudge. At 
that time Office of Special Investigations was a worldwide investigative unit in the Air Force. 
We were given the responsibility of investigating what became known as unidentified flying 
objects. The title within the center was Project Grudge. 


My job was in District D-05 of Wright Patterson Air Force Base where we received these 
worldwide reports. My job was to hand carry these reports over to the technical center and 
coordinate them with the project officer and answer any questions from an investigative 
viewpoint that I could assist on. I did that for approximately two years until the fall of 1 95 1 . 


When I left Wright Patterson, Colonel Dunn was nice enough to give me a two-page letter of 
appreciation for my work with Project Grudge. And so far as I know, that is certainly one of the 
early formal recognition’s of work of an Air Force officer with Project Grudge. Now, the behind 
the scenes efforts that could have been going on simultaneously, fortunately, I was not privileged 
to but I did gain a feeling [of what was going on] in that many of the investigations were never 
answered. Normally, in the investigative field, you have an allegation of something or in the case 
of a UFO, a sighting let’s say. You carry it through to its conclusion and a result. And, in many 
of those instances, although it’s been a long time ago, I do know that there were no viable 
scientific results [reported]. And as a consequence, it developed my interest into the unidentified 
flying objects. Having spent several hundred hours in the air at that point, I followed it 
throughout the rest of my Air Force career. And in Strategic Air Command, I was a coordinating 
officer between the Deputy for Intelligence and Continental Army Command, which at that time, 
had responsibility for the missile defense of the United States. 


When an object is moving a few thousand miles an hour, 12-14 minutes is a tremendous 
amount of time. I do remember speeds in excess of four to five thousand miles an hour, which 
were far in excess of any known aircraft that we had or any of the enemies. And being an 
Intelligence Officer one of my responsibilities was to have at least a rough idea of enemy 
capabilities and of their equipment. 


Once, we flew into Nellis Air Force Base and another pilot and I were flying a Gooney Bird 
[C-47A Skytrain]. The sky was totally clear. And an object went across southwest to northeast 
and it transited the entire heaven, looking at it from my right, and it went out of sight on the left, 
in probably less than 15 seconds. It was moving at a speed that I couldn’t even begin to calculate. 
It was certainly no satellite. It was a controlled object in flight. Some of the objects reported 
were tracked on radar. We had objects with four-way confirmation, ground visual, ground radar, 
airborne visual, airborne radar. And so far as I’m concerned, it doesn’t get any better than that! 


[Here we have a senior military > and foreign service official a hero of our country, 
confirming the excellent nature of the radar evidence and the reality of these UFOs while in Air 
Force Project Grudge. This starkly contradicts the official Air Force and government claims that 
no adequate evidence exists to confirm the reality of UFOs and therefore there is nothing to 
study. SGJ 


You are not talking about someone’s imagination. And in this same timeframe, I heard so- 
called experts that the Air Force brought in and concoct stories from swamp gas to things like 
that. If it’s an aircraft with wings and then the laws of air dynamics apply, you don’t stop that 
thing and reverse it in a blink of an eye. And things like that did occur. 




182 






It is sort of strange but we send people to prison, we send people to their death because of 
eyewitness accounts of crimes. Our legal system is based on that to a large degree. Yet in my 
following of unusual aerial phenomena for the past 50 years, there seems to be some reason to 
discredit very viable and very reputable witnesses when they say something is unidentified. Well, 
you show me the individual that can identify everything in the heavens, and I will show you the 
Second Coming. Just, that simple! Because I don’t care how technically qualified you are — for 
someone who is not there to voice an opinion and say oh, they saw such and such [is nonsense]. 
And my question is where did they get off, what was the stop that dropped them that qualified 
them to be experts? And I have a real problem with that. 


I truly believe that these phenomena have been visiting this planet long before Project 
Grudge. I think there is adequate evidence of it. And the more we learn about the planet, the 
more we learn how little we truly know. And so the advance of science is something that has to 
keep evolving and we have to keep learning. 


CB: I do not remember much of that. And I would do very little in terms of looking at Gun 
Camera film, for example. Photographs I tried to, to do rather well on. 


SG: Had you heard that Gun Camera footage of UFOs exists? 


CB: I had every reason to believe they existed. But I also had reason to believe that the Gun 
Camera film was handled very carefully, not for general observations. 


[Note that Colonel Brown repeats what Commander Graham Bethune and others have 
observed: that the compartmented nature of projects dealing with the UFO subject creates a 
situation where someone like Colonel Brown, working inside Project Grudge would not have 
access to other evidence, projects and information. SG] 


CB: President Truman, who was a rather direct individual [knew about these objects] over 
White House airspace. I’ve seen radar photographs of organized lights of unidentified objects, 
balls of light, if you will [over the White House]. These are on radar, ground, visual ground 
radar, airborne visual, airborne radar. Now the airborne visual, strangely enough, by the time you 
get a couple of fighters down there, those things apparently disappeared whenever they wanted to. 


[He is referring here to the multiple encounters of UFOs over the White House and 
surrounding areas in July of 1952. SG] 


So President Truman gets involved. He sees all of the newspaper headlines and things. He 
says I want the man who is responsible for investigating these things. So, I think General John 
Sanford was an Air Force Assistant Chief of Staff Intelligence. Someone said, well, General 
Sanford is the Chief of Air Force Intelligence. So President Truman said, is he the guy that’s 
responsible for it? Well, they said, well yes, sir, overall, but... Truman said, is he handling the 
investigation? They said, no sir. That would be a man out at Wright Patterson AFB. Truman 
said, then that’s the man I want to brief me. So I do know that they flew into Washington. And I 
have every reason to believe that he briefed the President. 


Later when I was in Britain, they were having a NATO exercise out in the North Sea area. 
And a couple of these little friendly balls of light got in the traffic pattern. Well, you can imagine 
what happened when they flew over the deck without landing, needless to say. And it threw the 
Navy into absolute consternation, as you can imagine. Well, the newspapers picked it up and 
they were in those days able to talk to the sailors and the airmen involved. And everyone is 
screaming for an investigation. They [the British] said, we have no investigative agency, blah, 




183 






blah. Well, to make a long story short, some years later, the group Captain I worked for, who 
retired as an Air Vice Marshall. . . we were talking about this incident. And he said that the U.K. 
agency investigating UFO’s was one floor above me in the same building that I worked in for 
three and one-half years, and yet they did not admit its existence! 


[This testimony is corroborated by British Foreign Service Official Gordon Creighton who, 
while not knowing Colonel Brown, tells an almost identical account of a covert UK office dealing 
with the matter. SGJ 


Well, this is just the tip of the iceberg, because some of the very unusual sightings were in the 
U.K. 


[See the testimony of Nick Pope, Larry Warren, et al. SGJ 


And they were also talking about the little Foo Fighters that were over Germany. The 
Germans thought they were ours and we thought they were Germans. Now in the real world, 
balls of light do not have a place being guided by an Intelligence, being airborne, and causing 
consternation or playing games. There is no explanation other than they are from someplace else. 
So as far as I’m concerned, that is totally inexplicable, based on my judgment, my background, 
and my research. 


I do know that there are agencies of our Government that can manipulate data. And you can 
create or recreate [whatever you want]. Craft, intelligently operated craft, have basically violated 
our laws of physics on this planet. And they have done that for a long time. The fact that the 
Government at this point — I know we have been investigating since 1947 — has not come up 
with an answer, to me indicates that there is something seriously wrong. Are we this incompetent 
in science? I don’t think so. Are we this incompetent in intelligence? I know we are not this 
incompetent in intelligence. Now, Project Blue Book, when it was closed by Dr. Condon’s 
group, I have every reason to believe that this was a total deliberate whitewash. 


[This is confirmed by Government documents and the testimony of Dr. Robert Woods and 
others. SGJ 


And my judgment is that there is an excellent chance that elements of the United States 
Government, for reasons unknown, have failed to advise the public of everything that has 
transpired. UFO’s have been investigated for an extended period of time and the general public is 
not being made aware, fully aware - but are given only bits and pieces, programmed responses 
and things like that. So it is strange that you should be interviewing me prior to a national 
election [October 2000] because all you have to do is turn on a television set or listen to a radio 
and you hear and see the results of professional programming. We make blind men see and 
injured people walk and things like that. And we make people talk in a certain fashion and we 
give them intelligence. We can do a lot of things. We also hide a lot of things. 


SG: Please tell us about your work with new energy research and how that has been 


suppressed. 


CB: I knew from engineering manuals and from research done at MIT that if we went from 
totally dry air to totally saturated air, you should improve the efficiency of an engine by about 
2%. Well, by humidifying air [through this process we discovered] — at that time I thought it was 
all I was doing — I was getting 20% to 30% improvement in the efficiency of an internal 
combustion engine. Well, engineering people and scientists just wouldn’t believe it. So I went 
ahead, not knowing any better, I started selling these devices which improved engine 




184 






performance so remarkably. Well, some strange things started to happen and Government 
agencies moved in, and particularly the Federal Trade Commission. The EPA was satisfied that it 
worked. But there was no Government support. Finally the administrator of the EPA had asked 
the director of their research lab in North Carolina if he would work with me. So I showed up 
without knowing that he had called him with a diesel vehicle. Very spectacular results in that, so 
far as I know, it was the first diesel ever tested in a United States EPA laboratory that 
simultaneously reduced all aspects of measured diesel emissions, plus improved fuel economy up 
to 23%. So far as I know, no one has every equaled it. 


The Federal Trade Commission later performed, literally, an illegal act. The statement, 
precise statement made to the attorney for a large dealer in Washington was, we don’t care 
whether it works or not. We just don’t want people buying these large American cars. I could 
not, when I got that report, I couldn’t imagine an officer of the United States Government — this 
is 1979 - ‘80 — saying that. 


So I flew to Washington and went to the Congress and saw a Senator with the Science and 
Technology committee, and met the General Counsel. Fie questioned me at length. I had 
documentation. Fie then said they would act. When 1 pointed out the unfairness of the FTC 
aspect, they wrote a scathing letter to the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and sent me 
a copy of it. Within three weeks from that date, I lost my vehicle, about $100,000 worth of 
equipment, and a test vehicle was stolen. I had sponsored the U.S. Army race team on a little 
sprite racing car. They stole my unit off of that car after we had just won the race. The Captain 
of the Army race team was a Master Sergeant in the Army. We’d created a super car. And they 
stole that car from the U.S. Aimy in Van Nuys, California. So in three weeks, psychologically I 
was wiped out. This is no longer just talk. There’s a real world out there. And as one who had 
engaged in, been in and around a combat zone nine years of my life, to have to come back to 
this. . . It was quite traumatic. 


[Many researchers with devices that could replace fossil fuels or greatly reduce our 
dependence on them have been subject to this type of abuse and sabotage. It is unconscionable to 
me that a hero of our country > like Colonel Brown could be treated this way and no aspect of 
Government or law enforcement has helped him. Meanwhile, the Earth ’s environment continues 
to be degraded. SGJ 


We also had a project with the Maritime Administration, which was very successful. The 
conclusion was I could either add 20% in horsepower or 20% in fuel reduction, at the same time, 
simultaneous, with reducing emissions by 40%. 


[I have the results of these studies and they are remarkable. Imagine: 20 years ago we could 
have reduced emissions by 40% and increased fuel mileage by 20%, had suppression not 
occurred. SGJ 


Near the end of the project, two months before, they said, our agreement is off. We are going 
to cancel the project. And I said, you can’t do this. [They said] we’ve done it. So I said, well, 
I’m going to finish the project, and 1 paid for the last two months of it. They said, we are not 
going to distribute the test results. Not only that, they said, we want all of your notes and all of 
your records. I’m saying, you really don’t have a right to those. And they say, yes we do. We 
paid for them. So, you don’t argue with the Government. So I made copies of everything I had, 
several copies, distributed them at various points, and sent them the originals of all of this. What 
I did not know at the time, I put in a call to the chief engineer who had set up the project and he 
was never available. The number two engineer was never available. So 1 finally called the 




185 






comptroller. And he said, they are no longer with us. 1 said, what are you talking about? He 
said, they have eliminated the research division in the Maritime administration! So someone did 
not want this concept to be successful. 


Then, later on a business trip, at two minutes after midnight, just into my birthday, a call 
comes into my hotel room when I’m just getting ready for bed. A voice says, please get out of 
your room immediately. I said, well if you tell me who you are and why, I’ll get out. Well, this 
is the desk clerk, and this poor man’s voice was breaking. He said, we just got a call there’s a 
bomb in your room. I said, I don’t think I’ll discuss this any further. So, I hung up and went out. 
By this time they are evacuating the whole motel. And so I said. I’ll check in to a Holiday Inn, 
which I did. I parked in a lighted area, right in front, this beat up old car I had with this device in 
it. I had several thousands of dollars of equipment in it and was taking it over to Purdue 
University to do some air tests. 


Anyway, next morning quarter of seven, I look out, there’s a blank space where my car was. 
They had stolen my car. Police recovered it two or three weeks later, and found drilled holes in 
the gas ta nk and all of my test equipment gone. I had built a prototype carburetor. That was the 
last time I ever did that. I had actually built the thing. And everything was gone. And 
psychologically again, it sort of zapped me. 


So we have a call that there was a bomb in my room. Somebody was following me. My 
phone was tapped. No question about this. And there was no logical reason for it. My unit was 
offered by this car dealer free with every new American car, truck, or van purchased. I made that 
stipulation it had to be American made. 


My concept really just opened a door on a whole new field of science. This is not just my 
judgment but that of at least three or four Ph.D.’s, in physics, chemistry, and engineering. There 
are combustion stimulating molecules and radicals generated in this process. It creates a 
thunderstorm in a bottle [and creates molecules which greatly increase fuel efficiency and 
decreases emissions.] My concept can work as a retrofit item on older vehicles for people who 
want to keep them. But particularly on the polluting, major polluting vehicles, which are 18 
wheelers, diesel automobiles, diesel buses in cities, tow boats, and ocean going vessels. I think 
the potential is there for power generating plants, based on research done in Europe, in England, 
and by Max Plane in Germany. 1 have every reason to believe it can be made to work on power 
generating plants. You would not even see white smoke coming out of one. I’m 90% certain this 
can be made to happen with a minimal investment. So anyway, my concept adds oxygen to the 
air among other things. Everything it adds is an oxidant. It helps the planet. It even reduces CO 2 : 
when you use less fuel, CO 2 is reduced. So far as I know, it is probably the most fault free 
concept. 


And in essence I was advised by an agency of the United States Government a few years ago, 
if I can do what I say I can do, it was a new field of science. Well, I’ve known it’s a new field of 
science since I can find no competitive concepts. It is a method of enriching the combustion air, 
or charged air on any heat cycle engine. I’ve tested it on propane and done extensive multi- 
million mile testing on diesel and gasoline. I’ve tested it on gasoline from 75 to 125 octane. I 
can run a vehicle that normally requires 92 octane on 75 octane without knock. And I have done 
so for a period of three months. In terms of the potential [of this technology]. I’ve just scratched 
the surface. 


Had at the beginning, 25 years ago, the oil companies gotten fully behind me, it might extend 
the useful life of existing oil on this planet, which is a finite resource. 




186 










UNCLASSIFIED 




4 




s je e uniTY 


I NFORMA TION 






STATUS REPORT 


PROJECT BLUE BOOK - REPORT NO. 10 


FORMERLY PROJECT GRUDGE 




PROJECT NO. 10073. 
Z7 FEBRUARY 1953 




AIR technical intelligence center 


wright-patterson air force base 


OHIO 


UNCLAoSirlED # ■ ' c^ 


T53-3$,?S" 


• • •' >' ; 1 •" ' 






187 






Testimony of Dr. Carol Rosin 


December 2000 




Dr. Carol Rosin was the first woman corporate manager of Fairchild Industries and was 
spokesperson for Wemher Von Braun in the last years of his life. She founded the 
Institute for Security and Cooperation in Outer Space in Washington DC and has 
testified before Congress on many occasions about space based weapons. Von Braun 
revealed to Dr. Rosin a plan to justify weapons in spaced based on hoaxing an 
extraterrestrial threat. She was also present at meetings in the ‘70s when the scenario 
for the Gulf War of the ‘90s was planned. 


CR: Dr. Carol Rosin SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


CR: My name is Carol Rosin. I am an educator who became the first woman coiporate 
manager of an Aerospace Company, Fairchild Industries. I am a Space and Missile Defense 
Consultant and have consulted to a number of companies, organizations, and government 
departments, even the intelligence community. I was a consultant to TRW working on the MX 
missile, so I was part of that strategy, which turned out to be a role model for how to sell space- 
based weapons to the public. The MX missile is yet another weapon system that we didn’t need. 


I founded the Institute for Security and Cooperation in Outer Space, a Washington DC based 
think ta nk . I am an author and have testified before Congress and the President’s Commission on 
Space. 


When I was a Corporate Manager of Fairchild Industries from 1974 through 1977, I met the 
late Dr. Wemher Von Braun. We first met in early 1974. At that time, Von Braun was dying of 
cancer but he assured me that he would live a few more years to tell me about the game that was 
being played- that game being the effort to weaponize space, to control the Earth from space and 
space itself. Von Braun had a history of working with weapons systems. He escaped from 
Germany to come to this country and became a Vice President of Fairchild Industries when I had 
met him. Von Braun’s purpose during the last years of his life, his dying years, was to educate 
the public and decision-makers about why space-based weapons are dumb, dangerous, 
destabilizing, too costly, unnecessary, unworkable, and an undesirable idea, and about the 
alternatives that are available. 


As practically a deathbed speech, he educated me about those concepts and who the players 
were in this game. He gave me the responsibility, since he was dying, of continuing this effort to 
prevent the weaponization of outer space. When Wemher Von Braun was dying of cancer, he 
asked me to be his spokesperson, to appear on occasions when he was too ill to speak. I did this. 


What was most interesting to me was a repetitive sentence that he said to me over and over 
again during the approximately four years that I had the opportunity to work with him. He said 
the strategy that was being used to educate the public and decision makers was to use scare 
tactics. . . That was how we identify an enemy. 


The strategy that Wemher Von Braun taught me was that first the Russians are going to be 
considered to be the enemy. In fact, in 1974, they were the enemy, the identified enemy. We 
were told that they had “killer satellites”. We were told that they were coming to get us and 
control us - that they were “Commies.” 




188 






Then terrorists would be identified, and that was soon to follow. We heard a lot about 
terrorism. Then we were going to identify third-world country “crazies.” We now call them 
Nations of Concern. But he said that would be the third enemy against whom we would build 
space-based weapons. 


The next enemy was asteroids. Now, at this point he kind of chuckled the first time he said it. 
Asteroids- against asteroids we are going to build space-based weapons. 


And the funniest one of all was what he called aliens, extraterrestrials. That would be the 
final scare. And over and over and over during the four years that I knew him and was giving 
speeches for him, he would bring up that last card. “And remember Carol, the last card is the 
alien card. We are going to have to build space-based weapons against aliens and all of it is a 
lie.” 




1 think I was too naive at that time to know the seriousness of the nature of the spin that was 
being put on the system. And now, the pieces are starting to fall into place. We are building a 
space-based weapons system on a premise that is a lie, a spin. Wemher Von Braun was trying to 
hint that to me back in the early 70’s and right up until the moment when he died in 1977. 


What he told me was that there is an accelerated effort in place. He didn’t mention a timeline 
but he said that it was going to be speeding up faster than anybody could possibly imagine. That 
the effort to put weapons into space was not only based on a lie but would accelerate past the 
point of people even understanding it until it was already up there and too late. 


When Von Braun was dying in front of me, the very first day that I met him, he had tubes 
draining out of his side. He was tapping on the desk telling me, “You will come to Fairchild.” 1 
was a schoolteacher. He said, “You will come to Fairchild and you will be responsible for 
keeping weapons out of space.” The way he said it with this intenseness in his eyes, and added 
that very first day, the first time 1 met him, that space-based weapons were a dangerous, 
destabilizing, too costly, unnecessary, untestable, unworkable idea. 


The last card that was being held was the extraterrestrial enemy card. The intensity with 
which he said that, made me realize that he knew something that he was too afraid to mention. 
He was too afraid to talk about it. He would not tell me the details. I am not sure that I would 
have absorbed them if he had told me the details or even believed him in 1974. But there was no 
question that that man knew and had a need to know, I found out later. 


There is no doubt in my mind that Wemher Von Braun knew about the extraterrestrial issue. 
He explained to me the reasons why weapons were going to be put into space, the enemies 
against whom we were going to build these weapons, and that all of that was a lie. He mentioned 
that extraterrestrials were going to be identified as the final enemy against whom we were going 
to build space-based weapons back in 1974. The way he said it to me, there was no doubt in my 
mind that he knew something that he was too afraid to talk about. 


Wemher Von Braun never spoke to me about any of the details that he knew related to 
extraterrestrials except that one day extraterrestrials were going to be identified as an enemy 
against whom we are going to build an enormous space-based weapons system. Wemher Von 
Braun actually told me that the spin was a lie - that the premise for space-based weaponry, the 
reasons that were going to be given, the enemies that we were going to identify - were all based 
on a lie. 




189 






I have been tracking the space-based weapons issue for about 26 years. I have debated 
Generals and Congressional Representatives. I have testified before the Congress and the Senate. 
I have met with people in over 100 countries. But I have not been able to identify who the people 
are who are making this space-based weapons system happen. I see the news. I see the 
administrative decisions being made. I know that they are all based on lies and greed. 


But I have yet to be able to identify who the people are. That is after tracking this issue for 
26 years. I know that there are big secrets being kept and I know that it is time the public and 
decision-makers pay attention to the people who are now going to be disclosing the truth. Then 
we need to make some definite changes and build a system in space that will benefit every single 
person, and all of the animals, and the environment of this planet. The technology is there. The 
solutions to Earth’s urgent and long-term potential problems are there. I have a feeling that once 
we start studying this extraterrestrial issue, all of the questions are going to be answered that I 
have had for 26 years. 


But I have concluded that it is based on a few people making a lot of money and gaining 
power. It is about ego. It is not about our essence and who we really are on this planet and 
loving each other and being at peace and cooperating. It isn’t about using technology to solve 
problems and heal people in the planet. It isn’t about that. It is about a few people who really are 
playing an old, dangerous, costly game for their own pocketbooks and power struggle. That is all 
it is. 




I believe that this entire space-based weapons game is initiated right here in the United States 
of America. What I hope is that with this information that is being disclosed, the new 
administration will to do what is right. That is to transform the war game into a space game so 
that we use the technologies that are available not just as spin-offs of war technology, but as 
direct technological applications to build a cooperative space system that will benefit the entire 
world and that will allow us to communicate with the extraterrestrial cultures that are obviously 
out there. 


Who would benefit from these space-based weapons? They are the people who work in that 
arena, people in the military, in industries, in universities and labs, in the intelligence community. 
This is not just in the United States but it is worldwide. This is a worldwide cooperative system. 
Wars are cooperative. Just as peace will be when it breaks out. But right now there are a lot of 
people benefiting. This is what our economy has been based on in this country and spreading 
around the world- war. People suffer as a result. It is not fair. It never has been. People have 
screamed: “out of swords let us build plow shares, let’s have peace and hold hands around the 
world,” but it hasn’t worked because too many people are benefiting. Not only are they 
benefiting financially, but from what my experience is there are people who actually believe that 
Armageddon should happen so we have to have these wars. 


So it is going from the pocketbook, to the religious right: some people actually believe that 
we have to have wars for these religious reasons. There are people who just love war. I have met 
warriors who just love to go to war. Then there are the good people, the soldiers, who just take 
orders. They have to feed their children and send them to college so they want to keep their jobs. 
People in laboratories have told me that they don’t want to work on these technologies for war 
but if they don’t they won’t get a paycheck. Who is going to pay them? But what I see is that 
there are not only dual uses for these technologies but there are many uses for the same 
technologies. 




190 






We can build space hospitals, schools, hotels, laboratories, farms, industries. It may sound 
far out but if we don’t do that we are going to build battle stations and weapons pointed down all 
of our throats and into space. Apparently we have been doing some of that already. We have a 
choice now that can be made. We can all benefit - all of the people in the military industrial 
complex, in the intelligence community, in universities and labs, in the United States and all over 
the world - we can all benefit. We can just transform that industry so easily with just a decision 
based on our highest consciousness, our spirituality, and on the fact that we have no choice unless 
we all want to die. And we don’t. So we can all benefit financially, spiritually, socially, 
psychologically; it is technologically and politically feasible to transform this game now and 
everybody will benefit. 


In 1977 I was at a meeting in Fairchild Industries in a conference room called the War Room. 
In that room were a lot of charts on the walls with enemies, identified enemies. There were other 
more obscure names, names like Saddam Hussein and Khadafi. But we were talking then about 
terrorists, the potential terrorists. No one had ever talked about this before but this was the next 
stage after the Russians against whom we were going to build these space-based weapons. I 
stood up in this meeting and I said, “Excuse me, why are we talking about these potential enemies 
against whom we are going to build space-based weapons if, in fact, we know that they are not 
the enemy at this time?” 


Well, they continued the conversation about how they were going to antagonize these 
enemies and that at some point, there was going to be a war in the Gulf, a Gulf War. Now this is 
1977, 1977! And they were talking about creating a war in the Gulf Region when there was 25 
billion dollars in the space-based weapons program that had yet to be identified. It wasn’t called 
the Strategic Defense Initiative, at least. Not until 1983. This weapons system, then, had 
obviously been going on for some time and I didn’t know anything about. So I stood up in this 
meeting in 1977 and said, “I would like to know why we are talking about space-based weapons 
against these enemies. I would like to know more about this. Would someone please tell me 
what this is about?” Nobody answered. They just went on with this meeting as though I hadn’t 
said anything. 


Suddenly I stood up in the room and said, “If nobody can tell me why you are planning a war 
in the Gulf when there is a certain amount of money in a budget so that you can create the next 
set of weapons systems that will be the beginning of the sell to the public about why we need 
space-based weapons, then consider this: my resignation. And you will not hear from me again!” 
And nobody said a word, because they were planning a war in the Gulf and it happened exactly as 
they planned it, on time. 


SG: Who was at this meeting? 


CR: The room was fdled with people in the revolving door game. There were people that I 
had seen once in a military uniform and other times in a gray suit and an industry outfit. These 
people play a revolving door game. They work as consultants, industry people, and/or military 
and intelligence people. They work in the industries and they revolve themselves through these 
doors and right into government positions. 


I stood up in this meeting and asked if I was hearing correctly. That when there was 25 
billion dollars expended in the space-based weapons budget, that there was going to be a war in 
the Gulf, stimulated, created, so that they could then sell the next phase of weapons to the public 
and the decision-makers. This war was going to be created so that they could dump the old 




191 






weapons and create a whole new set of weapons. So I had to resign from that position. I could 
no longer work in that industry. 


In about 1 990 I was sitting in my living room looking at the money that had been spent on 
space-based weapons research and development programs and I realized that it had come to that 
number, about 25 billion dollars, and I said to my husband, “I am now going to stop everything. I 
am now going to stop and sit and watch CNN television and I am going to wait for the war to 
happen.” My husband said, “Well, you have finally gone over the edge. You have flipped out.” 
Friends said, “You have really gone too far this time. There is not going to be a war in the Gulf, 
nobody is talking about a war in the Gulf.” 


I said, “There is going to be a war in the Gulf. I am going to sit here and wait for the war in 
the Gulf.” And it happened right on schedule. 


As part of the war game in the Gulf, we in the public were told that the United States was 
successful in shooting down Russian Scud Missiles. We were rationalizing new budgets based on 
that success. In fact, we found out later, after the budgets were approved for the next phase of 
weapons, that it was a lie. We did not have successful shoot-downs the way we were told. It was 
all a lie, just to get more money put in the budget to make more weapons. 


I was one of the first people to go independently to Russia when I heard that they had “killer 
satellites.” 


[See the testimony of Dr. Paul Czysz. SGJ 


When I went to Russia in the early 70’s, I found out that they didn’t have killer satellites, that 
it was a lie. In fact, the Russian leaders and people wanted peace. They wanted to cooperate with 
the United States and with the people of the world. 


Another time I called Saddam Hussein when he was lighting his oil fields on fire. My 
husband was in the kitchen while I was making this phone call. I got a call back from his First 
Attache with Saddam Hussein nearby and he asked, “Are you a reporter? Are you an agent? 
Why do you want to know?” 


I said, “No. I am just a citizen who helped to start the movement to prevent the 
weaponization of outer space and I have found that a lot of stories that I have been told about 
weapons systems and the enemies are not true. I wanted to find out what would satisfy Saddam 
Hussein so he would stop making these oil fields catch fire and stop antagonizing people.” He 
said, “Well, nobody has ever asked him that question, what he wants.” 




So when I hear that there is a possible threat of extraterrestrials - and I look at the history of 
thousands of years of possible ET visitations, and hear the disclosures of honest military- 
intelligence-industry people who have had experiences with UFO’s, with crashes and landings, 
with live and dead bodies of extraterrestrial beings - I know it is a lie. And if I am ever told that 
these are enemies against whom we have to build space-based weapons systems, based on my 
own personal experience of having worked in the military industrial complex on weapons 
systems and military strategy, I am going to know it is a lie. It is a lie. 


Not only will I not believe it, but I am going to go out as loudly as I can and tell everyone to 
take a look. They [the ET’s] have not taken us away yet. We are still here after thousands of 




192 






years of visits. If in fact they are still visiting us now and we have not been harmed then we have 
to look at this as something that is not a hostile occurrence. 


It would be my hope and my intention to do everything I could to work with people who are 
working to communicate with and cooperate with these extraterrestrial beings. They are clearly 
not hostile. We are here. That is enough proof for me. 


There is no limit to how people can choose to live on this planet. We have a chance to do 
that and I think that the window is closing rapidly. I don’t think that we have much time in which 
to make that decision. We are too close in too many ways to having some horrible disaster 
happen, having some sort of war take place, whether it is from high technology or an exotic 
weapons system. 


We need leadership and it has to start with the United States President and that is who we all 
have to reach. If you are international, if you are around the world, if you are in the United States 
of America, whether you are from any party, any belief system or religion- the United States 
Commander in Chief, the President of the United States is the person that needs to be reached. 
We need to say that we want an ultimate, comprehensive, verifiable ban on all space-based 
weapons. 




Testimony of “Dr. B.” 


December 2000 


“Dr. B.” is a scientist and engineer who has worked on top-secret projects almost all his 
life. Over the years he has directly worked on or had involvement with such projects 
involving anti-gravity, chemical warfare, secure telemetry and communications, 
extremely high-energy space based laser systems, and electromagnetic pulse 
technology. “Dr. B.” has direct knowledge of the fact that certain groups have used 
these space-based systems to successfully shoot down extraterrestrial spacecraft and 
their occupants. On at least one occasion he has seen extraterrestrial spacecraft in 
person. 


DB: “Dr. B.” SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


DB: When I was still at Autonetics prior to my NASA days with the Rockwell contract, I 
worked on a project called E Y E L A S S. Which became a billion watt laser system that we 
launch from space to shoot down aliens, which I’ve seen. So I worked on that. . . 


SG: Are you confirming that we actually have targeted and hit ET craft? 


DB: Oh yeah, definitely. 


I have a friend of mine named Norm Hayes, who just lives down the road here, who’s another 
rocket scientist friend of mine, that, is really hooked up in the laser area. 


We developed these systems in ‘62, ‘63. It was really going strong in the early ‘60’s. 


SG: Please explain how we are doing this. 


DB: If s called plasma. It is called electro-plasma light beams. 




193 






SG: And they are based on platforms in space? 


DB: Yeah. They are actually. They are on platforms in space, but they also have them in 
747’s now. There was one on the front cover of Popular Science about a year ago. It’s a new 
laser plasma device that they’ve developed. . . 


1 used to work in a Hughes facility in L.A. — the one up here at Fullerton. I worked both 
facilities on a lot of hush-hush projects in those days. 


SG: What were they dealing with? 


DB: Anti- gravity. As a matter of fact, I used to go out to the Hughes in Malibu. They had a 
big think tank up there. Big anti-gravity projects; I used to talk to them out there. I’d give them 
ideas, because they bought all my equipment. 


But the American public will never, never hear about that. 


I have buddies of mine that work in aerospace. We have our little get together every once in 
a while. And a friend of mine flew a disc. You’ve probable seen that disc, you know, from Area 
51. 




This flying disc has a little plutonium reactor in it, which creates electricity, which drives 
these anti-gravity plates. We also have the next level of propulsion, it is called virtual field, 
which are called hydrodynamic waves. . . 


Not only was I talking to people about this anti-gravity propulsion issue. I’m also talking to 
Von Braun about it. I mean. I’m loud, you know me, I’m very loud. And I was no quieter then. 


Then, the first night we are bringing the Saturn rocket out of the hanger I get a shake. I’m 
sitting there at the computer console, sound asleep, it’s 4:00 in the morning. One of my engineers 
comes up and shakes me. Mr. B, come on outside, there is something big happening. You said it 
was going to happen. I said, what, what what? They had just pulled the bird [Saturn] out and we 
are taking pictures. And a big disc came down in Seal Beach, California. I don’t have a picture 
of the ship hovering over it, but the disc came down and 400 employees saw it at 4:00 in the 
morning, early spring. It was 1966, about April of ‘66. 


SG: How has all of this been kept secret? 


DB: I know that some people I worked with did disappear on certain programs and were 
never heard from again. They just disappeared. There has been evidence of that all through my 
work. You know, that people go out on projects [and disappear]. But [to protect myself from 
this] I wouldn’t go any further on a project because I could see something strange coming. So, a 
lot of people have disappeared you know, that are higher up. . . 


It doesn’t matter who is in [the White House] because the industry is controlling this right 
now. Special interests — that is what this whole country is running on right now. 


SG: Which industries in particular? 


DB: Which ones would I think? Oil industry. 




194 








: ' «-T ;; -t-i/ia. 


DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT - — " ’ 


INTRA.OCPA^TMENTAL corresponocnce ' 




_95 Oat ario, Ko vgab or 21>_1950. 




riki t kuoiccr 




Coo-Magnetics 






.CTOPAKErm TO TKS CQNTRQT.TJ ^ of gglECOU&{bniCATIO« s'i . ' .f. v , M”, S 


_ v .1. ■ 


cf -a-io-.- „ s ^* h L P “^. £avsral yo!srs u '° tsvo teen aas=soa in the study ! 


;; Ta - 10 “ s vf radio wars propagation. Ths vagaries or this - 1 


phsuenanaa. have led us iato tho fields of aurora, ccsaic radiation, 


wr rf ; f p ~ S --f X r? 1 , 0 r®f tivit ' i ’ cud Sco*-=agaetisa. la the cats or eco-asagnotics 
if, Our *atsst*sa*»icas have contributed little to our knowledge or radio wave 
propasatioa - es yet, hut nevertheless have indicated several avecuss or 
I ^ :zzy v,e11 bG explored with profit. For eicaple, ws are 


Jj. t_a ®^ °f ° raeaas v.-hereby the potential energy or the earth’s Magnetic 


H field ray he abstracted oad used. . moeno-ia 


Oa the basis or theoretical considerations a snail and very 
.crude expcriaeatal unit was constructed' approximately a year ago and tosted 
r a car Standards Laboratory. The tests were essentially successful la that 
sufficient energy was abstracted from the earth’s, field to op prate n volt- 
jji-Rste?, approxiust ely 50 Milliwatts. , Although this .unit -was far froarbelng 
'•elf-sustaiuinz. it nevertheless ^enionstratod t.h» pniindr**? of the' basic ." , ■ 


_ rinr.iplcc in a Qualitative r en t ier and provided useful data for the design : - 
$ cf a hotter unit. . « " t * 


The design has now been completed for a unit which Should be 
s-Ur-sustnining and in addition provide' a snail surplus of power. Such o' 


■pit, in addition to functioning as a 'pilot power plant’ should be large ;', | l 
.enough to porait the study of the various reaction forces which are ' expected'', h 
It o'* develop.— Jtxir-u.. . .. ,j. .*&■ \ A 


* . ( . 's v - ; • • * ,>tfp • % 1-1 


, '■? . Wo believe that we are on ths track of sonething which cay trollf: • 


prove to be the introduction to a new technology. i;Tho existence ofja different 


t tsrs^nol tsirv In Vir\-»*nrt mif Vte* f Vm — — * -JS -a. i££-2j 






195 








•M tlic otter H The Slying Saucers are Reel" by Donald Kcvhoe bo>-v'w£.* 1 — . 
esa.- Best2, y witt tho , sightings or unidentified objects andbcth books elato'that 
% llyics c &j««ts.were of crtra-terrestricl origin and night well be space ship- 
b^.fron. another planet. -.Scully claimed that the preliminary studies of a- ‘ .-V- ' 


^ lndiM-^Vw fel1 lnt ° : h0 h6nJs of th0 States Covol-naent'c ^ 


ladiccwcc that they operated on seme hitherto unknown maeaetie - s n 


principles. : It eppeored to nc that our own work in geo-marao*-* es 
■i' tte lia >»S© between our technology and the technology > 


f? ac f r3 C1 ? d « 3i s£® 4 opemtod. If it is osaugod thet i 
5 iS i0S1 ^ ar ° th0 ri Gtt direction, the theory 


f th ° c f JCcr3 tes « e s ‘I'ii-a straightforward, with ell ^ 
observed features explained qualitatively and quantitatively. 


i*. • • * ■* .: 5 f "v'*” 


0 . .. , _ * “r 4 ® aiscrost enquiries through the Canadian Eataoar 


^'o^uatioa* blnGfc ° a WOr ° Cbl ° to obtala ror C9 ths following 


a * iS th f 1335:6 hi Sbly classified subject in. ths United 


E e3 CoTe raara ., rating higher even ^thaa the H-bceab. 


*' b. Hying caucera exist. V. v / 


_ ‘ . j- 


c. Their nodus operaadl is unknown but concentrated effort is belnr 


aade by a snail group headed by Doctor Vannevar Bush. ^ j 


4 * 2VfS?. .“2® 13 C0C3l<l0red tha Waited States authorities 
to be of tremendous significance. 


• -? I ; j 


I^vraa further informed that ths United States authorities* arc irvesiieatiitj: " 
oiong quite a smo er of lines which night possibly uu related to the =auetra‘‘ 
such as nsn.al pheno.-nena end I gather that they are not doing too well since j 
ohcy ndiccts- t_at if Canada is doing anything at all in gao-magnetlcs they 
would welcome a discussion with suitably accredited Canadians. 


While X an not yet in a position to say that we hove solved, 
even the first problems in goo-nagnctic energy release, X feel that tho 
correlation between our basic theory and the available information on 
saucers checks too closely to bo more coincidence. It is my honest opinion, 
that wo are on the right track and are fairly close to at least some of tho 
answers. ■ • j ■' • 


JJr. bright , Defence Rosearch Board liaison officer at tho 
Canadian Sabassy in TCsshingtcn, was extremely anxious for ca to got in, touch 
with Doctor Solsndt, Chairman of the Defence Research Board, to discuss with 
him future investigations along the lino of gco-magnotic energy release. 


X do not fool that we'have ea yet sufficient data to plaao before Defence i 


Research Board which would enable a program to 'os initiated within that 7 j 


organization, but ! do feel that further research i3 necessary ani I would 
prefer to boo it done within tho frame work of our own organization with, •; K 
of . course, full co-operation and exchange of information with other 7 M" 
interested bodies. . ,... ... • ] • i 1 . ... • .. a £|s 




:uii co-operation and exchange or information with other 
>edies. ... ..... • ] -j ;• 


X discussed this matter fully with Doctor Solsndt, Chairman of.lir ! »| 




Defence Research Board, on Uovea'cer 2Cfch and placed before . him as each 7 45 ;- 
inferaetion «s I have boen able to gather to date. Doctor Solcadt^gre^jMi l& 
that work.cn. goo-magnetic, energy ehculd go forward as rapidly^ jis^ poocib^o ^ | 




196 






eao orrerea rsu.x co-opuieuos or nx3 ooara xa provxaiag xeoorezosy facilities 
'■} acquisitlca or necessary itrcns of equipment, and specialised personam Tor * 
f:i>' incidental work in the project. 1 indicated to Doctor Solandt that we would 
prefer to keep the project •within the Department or Transport tor the tiao 
" being until ire have obtained suTficiont information to permit a coaplots 
}'■' assessment or the value or the work. .. 




I . It is therorore recoraeaded that a PROTECT be sot up •within 


r the frsxa work cr this Section to study this problem and that the work bo 
carried cn a part tJLno basis until such tine as surricieat tangible results 
can be seen to warrant more derinitive action. Cost or tbo progran. in its 
initial stages are expectod to be less than a ren hundred dollars and can. 
be carried by our Radio Standards lab appropriation. 


Attached hereto is a draft or terns of 'reference for such a ’ 
project which, if authorised, will enable us to proceed With this research 
•■;' work within our own. organization. 












- $ Snith) ;;5r 


Senior Radio Engineer 




•.. senior Kaaio Engineer 




'ris/cc *• .i 


/ tv\w - tb U*-«, 




'll C^/vb 












t. . 


c*:i i 


r | 


/*Ci 








i 


•J 


:|J 


lli 






197 










Testimony of Lance Corporal John Weygandt 


October 2000 




Lance Corporal John Weygandt enlisted in the Marine Corp in 1994. Stationed in Peru 
to provide perimeter security to a supposed drug-traffic radar installation, one night he 
and two other Sergeants were told to secure a possible crash site in the forest. When 
they arrived they saw a 20-meter egg-shaped UFO buried in the side of a gorge. He 
was called back from the craft, arrested, handcuffed and threatened and abusively 
interrogated. One of the men told him that the interrogators basically did what they 
wanted and that they were not under Constitutional law. Weygandt believes that this 
UFO was shot down by a HAWK missile. 


JW: Lance Corporal John Weygandt SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


JW: I enlisted in the Marine Corp under the delayed entry program in July of 1994 while 
still in high school. I enlisted, of course, in a delayed entry for a year or so. I went to boot camp 
on the 18 th of June. I graduated 8 September 1995. And from there my MRS was 0311, which 
was a grunt. 


In late January of 1996, I was given new orders and was given a new MOS, Military 
Occupational Skill listing as a 7212 Stinger Avenger. So I was in training to be an air defense 
gunner on the FIM 92 Alpha stinger missile, the surface to air missile, and the avenger weapon. 
And I was in training from February to late May of 1996. 


After graduating from that school, I was reassigned [to] a first duty station, second marine air 
wing, 28 th Marine Air Control Group, Second air defense battalion troop in North Carolina. 1 was 
assigned Battery B in June of 1996 and I went on several Ops, Operations - we call them Ops for 
short. Basically I was there and I was transferred over to the section for laser strike in February 
of 1997. When I got back, I was asked if I wanted to go and I said, “Sure” so I volunteered and I 
was sent to the section. We shipped out in March of that year to Peru. 


We were sent there to provide perimeter security to this radar installation. Basically this 
radar station was tracking- supposedly -drug aircraft that were exiting in and out of Peruvian and 
Bolivian air space. One night Sergeant Allen and Sergeant Atkinson came to us and said, “Look, 
we have got a situation where we have an aircraft crash and it is possibly friendly and they need 
us to go and secure the crash site.” This is late at night, about 1 1 :00 or 12:00 at night. 


I was on guard duty that night so I was already up and it was my shift. So we got up at about 
3:00 or 4:00 in the morning and headed out with about five or six hummers. We drove to where 
we needed to go and from there we had to hump through the bush. So we got there at about 6:00 
or 7:00, just when it started to get light. 


Well, we found the area real easy because there was a huge gash in the land where something 
had crashed. It didn’t break anything- I don’t know if you have ever been to a crash site where 
you had trees and they had just broken like in half. Everything was burned and it was like 
something had almost cut warm butter with a knife. It was like something on fire or had some 
kind of energy like a laser had cut it. It was really strange. Anyway, I was in the front with 
Sergeant Allen and Sergeant Atkinson. And we were ten or twenty meters ahead of everyone 
else. We all had maps and radios and compasses so we wouldn’t get lost. 




198 






We were the first ones to see this thing. It had gone up the hill and then off in the side of the 
ravine and ridge. This is about a 200-foot ridge, at least -Solid rock. It was buried in the side of a 
cliff. Anyway, we didn’t go straight up, we went to the left and walked up to the top of the ridge 
and that is when we saw the craft. 


This was a huge ship. And when I first saw it I was scared. It scared the heck out of me. I 
didn’t know what to do. It was really confusing. We all climbed down and it was buried at about 
a 45-degree angle in the side of the cliff there at the ridge. This was a steep cliff. It was straight 
up and down. And it was dripping a syrup-like liquid. It was everywhere. And it was greenish- 
purple and it kind of fluctuated. You would look at it one time and then you would look at it 
again and it was almost like it was alive and changing but every time that you looked at it you 
saw a different shade of greenish-purple. 


There was one light on the ship that slowly went around. And the machine, I could hear it 
because it was still functioning and it had like a hum to it. It was like a bass, like say if you 
unplugged an amp from a guitar, that kind of deep sound and it kind of fluctuated and then finally 
it just cut off and everything just seemed to stop. 


When I was looking at the craft, it was buried so I could see the back of it and there were 
these large things that looked liked vents, sort of like a fish gill on the back. I couldn’t see around 
the other side and I guess that it was the same way on the other side. Again, this liquid that had 
come out of the ship got on my cammies and it discolored them and ate them almost like acid. It 
ate some of the hair off my arms- 1 didn’t know that until later on. 


I was down there with the ship. There were three holes in it. I assumed that they were 
hatches but there was no way to tell. They were not flush with the main body of the craft. They 
were, I don’t know, a few inches below. I knew that there was one on top because you could 
slightly see it. I don’t know about the other side. There was another hatch the same width and 
diameter of the top hatch and it was kind of crooked to the side and it was half open. I didn’t see 
any lights or anything coming out of it but I felt this. . . presence. 


It is real strange. I think the creatures calmed me. It was weird and I think they were trying 
to communicate with me, like, I guess, telepathically. It is really weird and I don’t believe in any 
of that stuff. It is like basically sitting in your car and turning on an a.m. station that is just noise 
and just turning it up real high. That is what I heard when I first got in there. 


The ship was about ten meters in width and about 20 meters in length, that is just an estimate 
from what I remember. But it was huge. It was shaped like something between an egg and a 
teardrop. It looked really aerodynamic at least in the shape. I was close enough to make out 
detail on it but it was not just smooth. There were bumps and notches and things on it. It was 
really organic -it was almost like art. It looked like something that someone made in a shop. It 
looked like it could have been hand made but out of what and what materials, I don’t know. 
Definitely nothing like titanium. 


It looked metal but it didn’t have any reflection on it. The sun is shining on it and I could see 
the different shades of the craft and it didn’t reflect anything. I guarantee that if I had shone a 
flashlight on it, it wouldn’t have reflected it. 




199 






I wanted to get inside because someone- the creatures I think were calling me to help them. 
Everything was going to be all right. I was so mesmerized and into it and suddenly Sergeant 
Allen and Sergeant Atkinson were hollering and cussing at me to get the hell out of there. 


SG: Why? 


JW: I think that they were scared and they didn’t want me to get hurt. I don’t know. And 
they were real pissed off at me. Basically what happened was after we climbed back up, the 
DOE, Department of Energy people were there. They knew about it so I don’t know why we 
went there still to this day. But anyway, I was arrested. I had all my gear taken from me by men 
in black cammies. They had no nametags. They were older men, probably in their late 30s or 
40s. I was at the site probably fifteen or twenty minutes- we were the first people on the position. 
Then there were other people. They had containment suits. They must have just gotten there. I 
don’t know because we were down in the gorge. When we climbed up, there were the guys in the 
black cammies. They took me and put me on a cot that they had. They had me cuffed, both 
hands down, and they had my legs tied together with those plastic fasteners that the police use. 
They are kind of like cuffs. And they took me in this huge 47 and we took off. 


SG: Did they explain why they were treating you this way? 


JW: No, they were cussing at me saying that I was a “dumb asshole.” “Why don’t you 
fucking people ever pay attention to orders?” “You weren’t supposed to be there.” “You are not 
supposed to see this.” “You are going to be dangerous if we let you go.” I thought that they were 
going to kill me, really. 


Your question again is how long was I contained or subdued. I don’t know. For about two 
days I think. They had a Lieutenant Colonel from the Air Force and he did not identify himself. 
And he told me, “If we just took you out in the jungle, they would never find you out there.” 


[See the similarity of these threats with those made to Glen Dennis at Roswell 50 years 
earlier. SG] 


I didn’t want to test him to see if he would really do that so I just said, “Yeah.” And, he said, 
“You have got to sign these papers. You never saw this.” I “don’t exist” and “this situation 
never happened.” And if you tell anybody, you will just come up missing. 


He was real abrasive. Just a cynical asshole I guess is the best way to put it. They had me 
segregated with Air Force personnel for approximately three weeks and after that I was sent back. 


At this facility, I saw there were Americans but there were a lot of other nationalities there. 
There were Chinese. I think Germans were there. A lot of other people were at this other base. 
All they did was take me to an interrogation room. 


I sat in there for, 1 don’t know, fifteen hours with a light. They put this light in my face and 
they were yelling at me. I couldn’t readily identify any of these guys but I knew one of them was 
at the crash site because I recognized him and he was in black fatigues. He was saying, “What 
did you see?” He was like growling. He goes, “Are you a patriot? Do you like the 
Constitution?” I’m like, “Yeah.” He said, “We are on our own program. We don’t obey. We 
just do what we want.” And they are growling and they are relishing it. They are yelling at me 
and hollering and cursing. “You didn’t see anything. We will do you and your whole goddamn 
family.” 




200 






It was basically that for about eight or nine hours... “We are going to take you off in a 
helicopter and we are going to kick your ass out in the jungle and we are going to end you.” They 
didn’t physically put their hands on me but I was sitting in a chair and I was handcuffed to the 
chair and I couldn’t move so basically it was just harassment. I didn’t eat anything for a whole 
day. No water. No nothing. I just sat there. 


The group, my section was about eight to ten guys but just me, Sergeant Allen and Sergeant 
Atkinson saw this ship. We were the only ones that saw it. Now the others saw the crash area 
where it came through the jungle. They saw all that. They didn’t go into the ridge. Like I said, 
we were ten to twenty meters in front of them and we radioed that we found it and everything was 
fine. It was in late March, early April of 1997 when this happened... 


When I got back to the US I approached Sergeant Allen about it. He is married and has about 
one or two kids and I went to his house on base. He got all upset and threw me out of his house. 
He said he didn’t want to talk about it. I guess they scared those guys too. You have got to 
understand I can’t speak for the rest of the armed services but in the Marine Corp everything is 
monolithic: When they are told to do something, they are going to do it. If you don’t want to go 
along, they will basically railroad you. 


I didn’t want to keep my mouth shut about it. I told First Sergeant Powell about it. I don’t 
think that he is still there anymore. We are talking three years ago. 


There was no debris that I saw but there were big gashes in the rear of the aircraft. What it 
looked like is it had been hit with maybe a surface to air missile. There were a couple of HAWK 
batteries, that’s Homing All the Way Killers - that’s a low to medium anti-aircraft missile. 


Basically, it doesn’t have to hit the target in order to destroy the target. What it does is it gets 
in proximity of it and it has a high explosive fragmentation warhead and it basically explodes like 
a big shotgun in the vicinity of the targeted area. And by fragmentation it is suppose to destroy 
the target or damage it so it won’t be able to continue its mission. So I think that we shot it down. 


This is what I think happened. We shot it down. The other guys [at the radar facility] knew 
it was flying. I knew that these aircraft were flying because I had been in the Command Center 
there at the radar installation and I heard a couple of women there in the Air Force talking about 
aircraft flying in and out of the atmosphere at mach ten plus. So these aircraft were flying around 
there. They would reenter the atmosphere. I believe that the higher ups knew it was flying in the 
area. 


This ship was not one of ours. In Stinger School they teach you about all different kinds of 
aircraft and I knew a lot of aircraft anyway. Essentially, when I saw it I said, “This is nothing 
that I knew of.” 


Basically, the radar was sitting on a hill and it rotates. There is a command bunker that was 
built under the Earth. It looks like Star Wars in there. It is totally air-conditioned. It is really 
nice. There are computers and they have the control panels that control the radar and I guess they 
are linked to other sites and get other data coming in. 


Well, one night I was in there checking people going in and out. They have ID’s and I would 
check them. So these two girls came walking out and they were talking, “Well, we have these 
aircraft flying again.” And the other girl said, “Yeah, they are coming in and out of the 




201 






atmosphere.” And they log all these flights coming in. Later a man comes and gets the logbooks 
and 1 had to sign off for him to take all that. 




When you have objects that reenter the atmosphere and then stop on a dime and then turn 
around and go exactly the opposite direction — that is kind of strange. Meteors don’t do that. 


SG: Is this something that was rare or something that was happening all the time? 


JW : Oh, this was happening all the time. There were about three or four instances where I 
was on duty there that the same Air Force Officer came in there to get the log books. So these 
craft were tracked from this particular radar and were logged in. I guess the reason they were 
taking them is that they didn’t want people to know that they were tracking these craft. I am just 
assuming that. 


So I think they knew this craft was coming in. We can’t identify it. It is violating airspace 
here. They could have radioed the Peruvians and said to take them out and they shot them down. 
I am confident that when I saw the aircraft, it had been hit by something. Something had taken it 
out. 




I am not doing this to make money or publicity or anything but I think it needs to be told. I 
think that people need to hear it. Whether they agree with me or not is of no consequence. 


It is not from Earth. I knew that when I looked at it. I wondered if those facilities were built 
for the intent to track UFO’s or other objects and their cover was there to track drug aircraft. I 
don’t know, but from what I understand they were doing a whole lot more than just tracking drug 
aircraft. They had laser range finders and all kinds of high tech stuff that I have never seen 
before. I couldn’t really explain it. They [the laser range finders] looked like big telescopes but 
they had them in a bunker and it was able to rise up and zoom around- Just a bunch of weird stuff. 


The base I was taken to was definitely something like NATO or some multinational deal. I 
keep going back and really thinking about that. Why are all these guys here? Why would the 
Chinese be concerned with drugs being smuggled into the states? I know for a fact that our 
government is the one that is importing drugs. I think that this Command Center was permanent. 
This thing has been in operation for while. . . 


At the crash site there were about thirty of those guys with hazard suits on, at least. They 
marched right by me as I was being taken away. They were marching to get down the cliff. I 
guess they were there to check this thing out. I think they went in there and they took everything 
out and they shipped it back home. 


The behavior of these people was like this is routine and these guys were squared away. 
They knew exactly what they were doing. They had been trained to do this stuff before. That 
was the atmosphere: professional, cold, unassuming nature. We are here to do a job. Get the 
fuck out of our way is basically the attitude. 


[See the testimony of Clifford Stone who in the 1970s and 80s sensed on such a retrieval 
team. SG] 


I almost lost my mind after this happened. 


SG: Why is that? 




202 






JW: I was raised in a Christian home to believe that there was a God and that he created 
everything in the Universe and here they are — these creatures that I have never seen before and 
this happens. It made me almost crazy. Not suicidal, but I had to reevaluate everything that I 
knew. It is sort of like when you were a kid and you had been told that Santa Claus is real and 
then you find out that he is not. It is like now that you know that there is no going back. 


There is no denial. There is no way to say, “I didn’t really see this.” What do I do? Do I tell 
people? Who is going to believe that a Lance Corporal in the Marine Corp in the middle of the 
fucking jungle is going to see an aircraft like this? 


If I had to I would go with these creatures right now. I had this obsession with that I guess 
because of the pain and the experience in the Marine Corps, but I just wanted to escape and I was 
thinking about being with these creatures and wanting to go with them and wanting to get out of 
here... 


[See the testimony of Larry Warren regarding Airman Burris and how he reacted after the 
encounter at Bentwaters AFB in the UK. SG] 


These different agencies are on their own. They don’t obey the law. They are rogue. Do I 
think that this is a project that goes up through the government and everyone has a piece in it? 
No. I think these guys operate on their own and no one knows what they do. It is so easy to do 
today. And there is no oversight, no control. They just do whatever they want. They are evil. 
These people are evil. Do I think that it goes to Bill Clinton and the Congress? There may be 
guys up there that know about it but they are not going to say anything. If they say anything, they 
are through. 


Lethal, deadly force has been used. For those of you who don’t know, I know marine snipers 
and I have heard other guys talk about it and I’ve heard that these guys go on the streets and they 
stalk people and they kill them. I know that the Army Airborne snipers do the same thing. They 
use Delta Force to go grab these people and silence them by killing them. If this goes on, where 
do they get the money to finance all this. Very simply, they are selling arms. They are selling 
drugs. A lot of this business is about having the spec ops and how they get these unlimited 
amounts of money. Well, it is not coming from the government coffers - it is coming from 
running drugs or weapons - the selling of hardware or whatever. 


I have lived in honorable circumstances but I confessed to having smoked marijuana so I 
could get out of the Marines. That is what I told them because I wanted out. Well, there were 
two ways to do it: I could have either told them that [or that] I was homosexual. That wouldn’t 
have gone over too well. So I went over to First Sergeant Powell and I told him that I wanted to 
get out and what was the quickest way to get out and he said, “Tell them you smoked marijuana. 
Only tell them that you smoked it once.” So I told them that and they had the CID guy come and 
talk to me and I said, “Yeah, I smoked marijuana. I took one puff and I inhaled.” I was desperate 
to get out. . . 




203 






DEPARTM ENT OF DEFENSE, ... 


JOIMT CHIEFS OF STAFF *.N “*• ~ t J 'J 




JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF 
MfSAOC CCNTEN 




JIM -3 1350 


7YIJ I?U 




•Sk 0 


A . 


i 


&•' 




k ■ 


i T 


r 


* 


S-- 




VZCZCMLT565 


MULT 


ACTION 


OlAI ! 


,OIST» 


v . I ADP C« 1 i J5C09) J.JINMCC NIOS SECOEF (07 ) SECOEFi US0 P (15) 
ATSOl A£ (01 ) asd'<p*»ec»iv 1 1 0 1 A ( 2 0 ) NMIC 


- C«C CC WASHINGTON OC 


\m A CSAF WASHINGTON OC . 


• CNO WASHINGTON OC 


- CSA WASHINGTON nc 


- CIA WASHINGTON nc 


* sFCSTATE WASHINGTON 


. NS* NASH nc 


ft.lf 




18134 




OC 




1047} 




TR AnS I T / 1542 1 15/ 154 2207/4100 I S2T0R15422® 4 
OE HUESLHA *4668 1542115 
TNV CCCCC 
R 422052.7 JUN 80 
fm USDAO LIMA PERU 
TO RUEKJCS/OIA WASHOC 
INFO RULPALJ/USCINCSO OUARRY HTS pn 
RULRAFA/USAFSO HOWARO AFS pn 
0T . / 




1 




1 




m 


CL 


Q ^ *AOo 


*». v. rf> -v. v 


N\ *>.r«\ 




XR 6 87 6 014* *0AU) 
REPORTS » 




SUB J I 


this is an info 


1. CUJ CTHYJ PERU 




1PE) 




NOT FINALLY Eval INTEL 




CUJ 




in 


*3- 


m 




«,» TITLE (U) UFO SIGHTEO IN PERU 
3;. (U) "OATE OF I'NFOI 800510 ' . ■ 


4i ,(U.) ORIGI USOAO AIR LIMA PERU 
5. (UJ REQ RFFSI Z-D13-PE030 


«. (II) SOURCE I 6 876 0138. OFFICER IN THE PERUVIAN AIR FORCE 
WHO OBSERVED THE EVENT AND IS IN A POSITION TO 0E PARTY . 


TO CONVERSATION CONCERNING THE EVENT j SOURCE HAS REPORT.EO 


reliablt in ..the . past . 




.SUMMARY! SOURCE REPQPTEO THAT A UFO WAS SPOTTED 




7. ... , 


ON TWO DIFFERENT OCCASIONS near PERUVIAN AIR FORCE (PAP) base 
IN SOUTHERN PERU. The FAP TRIEO TO INTERCEPT AND OESTROY THE • 
UFO, Bill WITHOUT SUCCESS - . 




page 1 




«P 1 Mil 


■ 7 •/'- 










- 204 - 






** 








/h 






204 




I ($it ■ ■ 






DEPiV’vTMfiNT OF DEFENSE 


»04NrCHlCFS OF STAFF 
MCSSAGf CEKftl 




p *G£ ? .. . 1813.4 


•.. «*. DETAILS! SOURCE TOio RO ABOUT THE SPOTTING OF AN 


,i\ UNIOEnTIFJEO Flying 08JECT IN ThE VICINITY OF MARIANO MELGAR AIR 1 
: : V 8ASE, LA JOYA, PERU (18805S, 071S306W)', SOURCE STATED THAT T«E 


vehicle has spotted on two different occasions', the first was , 


■. OURINS THE MORNING HOURS OF 5 MAY 80. ANO THE SECONO DURING 
•> The EARtY EVENING HOURS OF 10 MAY 80. 


'■ SOURCE STATED THAT On 9 MAY, WHILE A GROUP OF FaP 


OFFICERS WERE IN FORMATION AT MARIANO MaLGAR, THEY SPOTTED A 
UFO THAT was ROUNO in shape, HOVERING near the airfield, the 
p. - air. COMMANDER SCRAMBLED an 1 SU- ?2 AIRCRAFT to HAKE AN 
•; .INTERCEPT. THE PILOT. ACCORDING TO A TMIPO PARTY, INTERCEPTED 


,{"• the vehicle an" fired upon it at very close range without, 


CAUSING ANY APPARENT 0‘MAGE. the pilot tried TO hake a 
SECONO PASS ON THE VEHICLE, PUT THE UPO OUT-Ran THE 8U-22i. 


•••' the SECOND SIGHTING MAS DURING HOURS OF DARKNESS. 


tme vehicle was ligmteo. again an su-22 was scrahbleo, but the 


V vehicle out-ran THE AIRCRAFT. 


V 86. : ORTG CMTSS RO MAS HEARD DISCUSSION ABOUT THE 


SIGHTING FROM OTHER SOURCES. APPARENTLY SOME VEHICLE WAS: 


• . ^POTTED, BUT ITS ORIGIN REMAINS UNKNOWN. 


y.. 9.', 'CM) proj no i w/a 


V : * 8, CU1 COLL MGMT rones I AB • ' 


'.••Ml.. fUl SPEC INST: NONE. OTRC: NO. . • 


12, IU1 PREP BY: NORm*m h. kiingE, COL, AIRA 


13. Cul APP 8YS VAUGHN E'. WILSON. CAPT. OATT. ALUSNA 
. •' .14, fu^ RED EVALI NO PEL to": none 


15, tU) ENCLI N/A 


16, ^U) 01 ST BV ORTG * “/A 


. . 


.It T 


.'■i "468B ' 


annotes . .. 


JAL 117 ....... 










nnmn 




822208? 






205 










Testimony of Major George A. Filer III 


November 2000 




Major George Filer was an Air Force Intelligence Officer who not only had an 
extraordinary encounter with a massive UFO on radar over the United Kingdom but 
later, in the 1970s while he was at McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey, found out 
that an extraterrestrial biological entity had been shot at Fort Dix. The Extraterrestrial 
fled to adjacent McGuire Air Force Base, where it died on the tarmac. He testifies that 
this life form was then picked up and taken to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 
Afterwards, many of the key personnel on the base who had a connection with this 
event, were quickly transferred. Major Filer also points out that the ridicule factor has 
been very effective at silencing people who have seen ETs or UFOs, and has helped to 
maintain secrecy. 


GF: Major George Filer SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


GF: My name is George A. Filer, III. I was in the U.S. Air Force and my final rank was 
major. I was a navigator in various aircraft and tanker transport aircraft. I was an intelligence 
officer most of my career, and in that period, frequently briefed generals and congressmen on our 
capabilities and the threat to our forces. 


Well, I was a briefing officer, and I would come to work [at] 4:00 or so in the morning. On 
the morning of January 18, 1978, I drove through the main gate at McGuire, and I noticed that 
there were red lights out on the runway, and that probably something was going on out there. [I] 
didn’t think too much about it until I got to the 21 st Air Force Command Post, [which] was where 
I worked. I was the Deputy Director of Intelligence for the 21 st Air Force, which controlled half 
the military aircraft that flew the presidents and the various VIPs from the Mississippi River 
around to India. We had some 300 aircraft, and we were flying all kinds of missions — almost 
anything that had to do with military airlift, we accomplished. 


This particular morning, when I went into the command post, I was met by the head of the 
command post, and he said that it [had] been a very exciting evening — that [we’d] had UFOs 
over McGuire all night, that one had apparently landed or, possibly, crashed at Fort Dix, and that 
when a military policeman came upon the alien, that he had pulled out a gun and shot him. And I 
said, foreigner, [that kind of] alien? I was a little bit confused by him saying alien. And he said, 
“No, an alien from outer space.” He was very specific about the fact that an alien from outer 
space had been shot at Fort Dix, and that he had run away after being wounded, and headed for 
McGuire. Now McGuire and Fort Dix just have a fence between them, and this alien apparently 
climbed the fence or went under it, and got to McGuire and died out on the end of the runway. 
The security police were out there and had captured the body, so to speak, and were guarding it. 
He said that a C-141 from Wright-Patterson was coming in to pick up the body. That made me 
stand up, because I didn’t realize that Wright Patterson had C-141s — I thought Military Airlift 
Command was the only one who owned C-141 aircraft — so I was like, my gosh, what’s going 
on here? He said, “We want you to brief us at the standup general briefing this morning and 
explain what happened to everybody.” And, I said you want me to tell General Tom Sadler and 
everybody in the command post that we captured an alien?! 


They said, “Yes, we want you to brief [them] this morning.” Well, I did some checking 
around, and I called the 38 th Military Airlift Wing Command Post to check with them to see if the 




206 






story was the same as I was given. They said, yes, that they had heard the same information; they 
said that this actually did happen — that an alien was found on the base. 


Later that morning, I was told that they decided not to brief it in the standup briefing, so I 
didn’t actually brief it. Later that morning, I carried the code word down to General Sadler’s 
office, and I noticed some commotion going on in there, and that some of the security police 
people were there, looking rather disheveled. Since General Sadler was a stickler for everyone 
looking perfect, it was surprising to see these people that obviously needed shaves and were in 
fatigues, so then I knew that this might tie into the story that I had heard. 


After the briefing I went to the photo lab; almost every day I went to the photo lab, because in 
these briefings, you have four screens and you have to keep them all filled up with pretty pictures, 
and so on. There, they indicated that they had taken pictures of something extraordinary, and 1 
said, well, let me see them. The sergeant was handing them to me, when his master sergeant said, 
“He can’t see those,” so all I knew is that they had some pictures that I wasn’t allowed to see — 
but normally, being the general’s briefer — I had never been stopped from seeing any pictures 
that they had. 


It was a very serious operation. There are nuclear assets on the base — they used to carry 
nuclear weapons back and forth to Europe — and I talked to one of the security policemen who 
[claimed] to have been out there. He indicated that he essentially saw a small body that could 
have been like a child, but it seemed to have a larger-than-normal head. 


One interesting thing is that many of the key personnel on the base at that time who had a 
connection with this event, were quickly transferred — from the wing commander on down — 
indicating that if you knew something, they tended to split you up, so to speak, so you couldn’t 
talk about it. This was done within a matter of weeks. The security policeman told me that he 
was transferred within a few days — as a matter of fact, he was taken to Wright Patterson within 
a day or two, debriefed by a number of people, and essentially told not to talk about it anymore. 


I also heard that they listened to this going on, on the radios, and they heard that this chase 
was on; that the alien had been shot at Fort Dix. They were chasing it towards McGuire — for 
whatever reason, it chose to run towards McGuire Air Force Base — and that both the state police 
and the military police were chasing this person or alien that came from what looked like a UFO. 
As I understand it, it was a disc-shaped craft. 


They indicated to me that the UFOs had been in the area for quite some time that evening, 
that they had [them] on radar, and that the tower operator had seen them. Some of the other 
aircraft in the area had apparently seen them as well. 


There were six or eight people guarding the body; then there was the commander of the 
security police, and a few of us in the command post [who knew of this event]. I assume that 
General Sadler was briefed about it. 


SG: Have you learned of other UFO events while you were in the military? 


GF: Well, I happened to meet a lady who was at White Sands, and was an engineer working 
out there. She was out hiking one day, and she told me that she and a couple of her friends had 
come up to the top of a hill, and they had looked down in this valley, but only their heads were 
showing on the top of the hill. They just happened to be looking over, and down the way the path 
was, and they saw a UFO on the ground with a couple of little aliens picking up rocks and things. 




207 






They watched it for an extensive period; it was only several hundred yards away from them, and 
they got a pretty good look at it. And eventually the aliens did see them, and they jumped in the 
craft and took off. 


I had personally never seen anything until about 1962, when we were flying tankers over 
England, and London Control asked us to intercept a UFO. We happened to be done with our 
refueling mission, and we accepted the assignment. We were just over the North Sea, and they 
asked us to fly to the center of England. We were doing some 400 miles an hour in a dive down 
to intercept this object. They gave us headings, and it was pretty much hovering in the 
Stonehenge area — Oxford, to the Stonehenge area, at 20-30 miles out. I got it on radar, and it 
was a very large return. 


We used to fly up by the Forth of Frith Bridge, which was kind of like the San Francisco 
Bridge — it is a very large bridge, and the return of the UFO was similar to that in size and 
intensity. In other words, it was a very large radar return. Obviously, London Control had it on 
their radar, and they were vectoring us to this object. When we got about a mile from the UFO, it 
just took off into space — several thousand miles an hour, almost directly up. Frankly, at least to 
my knowledge, we had nothing like that capability. 


My best guess is that it was a disc-type craft, but a fat disc — at least, there were lights 
something like this at the top and at the bottom. It was more than just a straight plate-like object; 
it had a dome on the top of it. 


If the radar return was accurate, it was probably 500 yards across in size, or something — I 
mean it was a huge thing. We wrote it in the navigator’s log. 


I also had a sighting here, where we live. This is Briarwood Lake in Medford, New Jersey; 
we had just moved into this house. We were asleep — I’m just guessing it was 3:00 in the 
morning, asleep with my wife — and, suddenly, the room got very bright in the middle of the 
night. I got up out of bed, and opened up the shade, and looked outside. I don’t know if most 
people have seen a submarine surfacing with all the water coming up — well, this was like a disc 
about 30 feet in diameter surfacing, and what looked to me like water coming off of it. 


Around the craft was this ionization — very similar to the Aurora Borealis. It moved across 
the lake for a while, and then flew off at a fairly high rate of speed. Because of that, I have 
checked with a lot of the neighbors, and it’s amazing how many people have actually seen craft 
on these lakes. 


Also, occasionally I used to do briefings on the UFO sightings that had occurred around the 
world, to the generals. One that sticks out in my mind is 1976 — there was a famous encounter 
near Tehran. 


Around that time, this particular colonel was telling me that the F-106 had set the world’s 
record for speed. They had these aircraft going as fast as they could, and they would be diving on 
this UFO that was hovering in a valley in Colorado. Just like my experience in England, when 
they got near the craft, it took off and left them standing still. They were doing 1,500 mph or 
something — whatever the top speed was at that time for these aircraft in a dive — but whoever 
was flying these had capabilities far beyond anything that we had for years and years — I think 
even today. 




208 






I think these are something alien: it is a non-human [craft] that has a different form of 
propulsion and is coming here and doing reconnaissance. 


I’ve talked to a number of astronauts who have seen them; I’ve talked to other military pilots 
who have seen them, and I remember Captain Ramidge who I used to work for in Athens, Greece 
— he had one during the Korean War fly right off his wing, stay with him like for an hour — not 
only off his wing, but [doing] acrobat things around his aircraft! I don’t know the exact 
percentage of people, but something like 1 0 percent of the pilots and aircrews that you ask about 
it have had sightings. 


I sat in this room here a few years ago, and a colonel who was in Intelligence told me he had 
his whole B-52 crew see a UFO. You know, these people don’t volunteer and sit in front of the 
camera and tell about it, but there are an awful lot of people who have seen them. They know that 
they have advanced capabilities. They usually see some kind of a solid object that appears to be 
made of some kind of metal — usually a gunmetal gray. Particularly at night, people usually 
report various lights around them. 


SG: What happened to the ET at McGuire? 


GF : It seems to me that I was told that it was put in some kind of a casket and flown away. 


I also think that in 1947, in that time frame, something crashed out West. I think that 
something happened out there, at least based on what you might say is the talk in the military. 


The tendency is to make things classified when you don’t know what’s happening — secret, 
top secret or whatever — and if it comes down from the President, it’s a very high classification: 
probably a code word above top secret. In other words, need to know that kind of thing, and once 
that caveat or designation is put on something, it’s very difficult to get it downgraded. You can 
go to the archives and despite what they tell you, they have things going back to the Second 
World War that you still are not allowed to look at. Once these things are top secret, it just kind 
of moves on and forever stays top secret. Y ou can base it on the fact, for example, that this craft 
had advanced technological capabilities, so you don’t want the other side to know what you 
know, and how these things work — it’s to your advantage to keep this secret. 


But, I think that it’s time that these various programs come out. The way that it’s been kept 
secret to this extent is through ridicule. If it was just a matter of it being top secret, I think most 
of the world would know about it today, but they put in a kind of ridicule factor. Y ou will hear 
someone telling a story like this, and people will say, well, he must be crazy — he believes in 
UFOs. And, they brought this ridicule out when anyone saw anything, but my experience has 
been an awful lot of policemen have seen these; an awful lot of FBI have seen these; an awful lot 
of military have seen these. 


At times I used to carry nuclear weapons. In other words, I was mentally fit to carry nuclear 
weapons, but I’m not mentally fit if I see a UFO. This criticism and this ridicule have done more 
to keep the story [from] coming out than almost anything else. 


[We hear this over and over from military and other witnesses: the media and official ridicule 
is so intense, that it has sensed as a powerful force for silence and secrecy. Most people do not 
want to expose themselves or their families to such ridicule, and instead choose to remain quiet. 
SG] 




209 






Testimony of Mr. Nick Pope, British Ministry Of Defense 


September 2000 




Nick Pope is a British Ministry of Defense official, still currently employed at the 
Ministry of Defense, who headed up the Ministry’s office for research and investigation 
of the UFO phenomenon for a number of years in the 1990s. In his testimony, we will 
learn of incontrovertible evidence in several events with massive objects moving at 
extraordinary speeds, witnessed by military personnel with impeccable credentials, and 
tracked on radar — objects which are not manufactured on this Earth. He will also 
confirm the Bentwaters case and other cases within the United Kingdom, and 
acknowledge the existence of extensive government files on the UFO phenomenon. 


Mr. Pope supports total openness and honesty on the UFO issue, and believes that there 
should be a full disclosure of all information on UFOs, held by governments all around 
the world. 


NP: Mr. Nick Pope SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


NP: My name is Nick Pope. I’m a serving official with the British Ministry of Defense, 
which I joined in 1985. I’ve done a number of different tours of duty there, the most relevant of 
which is from 1991 to 1994, when I was posted to a division called Secretariat Air Staff. My 
duties there were to research and investigate the UFO phenomenon for the British government. 


I received somewhere between two and three hundred UFO reports each year. My job was to 
evaluate these [and] to come to a decision about whether there was evidence of any threat to the 
defense of the United Kingdom. After an in-depth investigation, 90-95 percent of those sightings 
turned out to have prosaic explanations, but we were left with a hard core of sightings, which 
defied any conventional explanation whatsoever. These were a number of interesting cases 
involving sightings by military personnel, near misses between UFOs and aircraft, instances 
where UFOs were tracked on radar, and cases where UFOs were captured on film and video. 


Over the years in which the British government has been looking at the UFO phenomenon, 
there have been numerous cases in which uncorrelated targets have been tracked by military flight 
controllers and, certainly, on a number of those occasions, military jets were either diverted from 
task or, indeed, scrambled, to try and intercept these objects — not to engage them in any hostile 
sense, but merely to close with them to identify them. 


Now, on those occasions, I have to say, we have not been successful in our attempts to make 
an interception. Invariably, we find that the speeds and maneuvers of the UFOs are way ahead of 
the best things in our inventory, with regard to aircraft. They run rings around us, frankly. 


On occasion — when military jets have actually been chasing UFOs to try and get gun 
camera footage, or to try and close within visual range to get an ID on what the mystery craft is, 
these things have shown that not only are they capable of phenomenal bursts of speed, but also 
the capacity to just stop and turn in an instant, raising all sorts of issues about the G-force implicit 
in such a maneuver — G-forces, which frankly, even with the best G-suit, would be far too much, 
I think, for any human to survive. That, in itself, raises interesting questions about who’s 
operating these things. 




210 






To pick a few cases to talk about which are particularly impressive, I think one has to perhaps 
start back in 1956, with a radar visual sighting that took place near the Bentwaters area. 
Incidentally, this was one of the cases written up in Project Blue Book and judged to be 
particularly specific. To cut a long story short, there were fighter controllers who picked up a 
radar target, which was not readily identifiable as one of our own aircraft. So, we simply took a 
look at that and judged that there was indeed a solid structured craft in the air. It was traveling at 
a phenomenal speed compared to the envelope, as it were, of our own fighters. 


Jets were launched, and, indeed, the pilots did manage to close and get a visual sighting on 
this object. They just described it as some sort of structured, possibly disk-shaped craft, but 
frankly, it was just too fast and maneuverable for them to get a really clear view. Again, it ran 
rings around them. So, that was an interesting example — one of many of these craft displaying 
speeds and maneuvers which we couldn’t hope to match. 


To throw in an example of a [much more] modem sighting and one that I was directly 
involved in the investigation of [was] on the 30 th and 31 st of March, 1993 [when] a series of UFO 
encounters took place over Great Britain — the most interesting of which involved an occasion 
where two air force bases were actually overflown by a large triangular or diamond-shaped UFO. 
The two establishments involved in this are RAF Cosford and RAF Shorebury, in the Midlands. 


At RAF Cosford, this part of the sighting happened in the early hours of the 3 1 st , about ten 
past one in the morning. The guard patrol at Cosford saw this UFO fly directly over the base. 
They, of course, phoned in an immediate report, and found, interestingly, there was nothing 
showing up on radar at all — even though they had this thing going right over their heads. They 
phoned, amongst other people, their colleagues at RAF Shorebury, which is about ten or twelve 
miles down the road. The meteorological officer took the phone call. You have to understand, 
there is only a skeleton staff at these establishments, so the “Met” officer there took the call, went 
outside, perhaps just thinking, really, that this was people playing a trick on him. 


But, sure enough — in the distance he saw a bright light heading his way. This thing got 
closer and closer. The way he described it to me, voice shaking with emotion the following 
morning, was like a massive flat triangular-shaped craft, possibly raised a little bit like a diamond, 
passing over his head at a height of maybe no more than 200 feet, slightly to one side, emitting a 
low frequency humming sound, which he said he could not only hear but feel. 


Intriguingly, this craft was firing a narrow beam of light down at the fields just beyond the 
perimeter fence of the military base. He said that this object came toward him at a speed of 
probably no more than 20 or 30 miles an hour — very slowly. 


Suddenly, the light retracted up into the craft and, in an instant, it shot off to the horizon in a 
matter of seconds. Bear in mind, this is an Air Force officer with eight years experience in the 
service. He sees aircraft and fast jets every day of his life. He said the speed of this thing was 
probably about ten times the speed of an Air Force jet. When I asked him to estimate the size of 
this mystery craft, with typical military precision he said it was probably midway between a C- 
130 Hercules transport aircraft and a Boeing 747 jumbo jet. 


I launched a full investigation into this incident, and in fact, this was one of a series of 
sightings that took place over the entire country on that particular night, involving not just 
members of the public, but numerous police officers, particularly in the southwest of England and 
in Wales, and also in the Midlands. I made all the usual checks. We impounded the radar tapes 
and had them sent up to the Ministry of Defense main building. We made all the series of checks 




211 






that we could possibly make — checking for everything from satellite tracks and reentry into the 
Earth’s orbit of space debris, to astronomical phenomena, meteorites, fireballs, military aircraft 
exercises, weather balloon launches — however unlikely this was, we checked. That was always 
the philosophy — you check everything in this business. 


We drew a complete blank, and at the end of about a week or so of pretty solid work on this, I 
put a report up the chain-of-command through my Head of Division to the Assistant Chief of the 
Air Staff — an Air Vice Marshal Two-Star Air Force Officer. We put this up to him, and we 
basically said that an uncorrelated target, an unidentified craft — but not just a light or a shape — 
a structured craft of u nk nown origin, penetrated what we call the UK ADR, the United Kingdom 
Air Defense Region. 


On that particular night, it flew without being tracked on radar, without any aircraft being 
launched, and flew with total impunity over two military establishments and over a large part of 
the rest of the country — and then disappeared, object unexplained. The Assistant Chief of the 
Air Staff thought long and hard about that. I suppose it was a Catch-22 situation. He simply 
came back and he said, “It’s a very interesting case, but you’ve clearly run all the checks that you 
can make. There is frankly nothing more we can do, but it’s fascinating.” 


Now, I think when that went up the chain-of-command, we certainly changed a few people’s 
minds there about the whole nature of the UFO phenomenon, and we got, I think, a number of 
senior civil servants and military officers to really realize that on their watch, as it were, this 
occurred and was not just nonsense. The UFO phenomenon is not just lights and shapes in the 
sky. It’s real, it’s solid; it can involve the military as much as anyone else. I think that that 
remains one of the most significant cases ever to have taken place in Britain, and frankly, it 
shows — if indeed there is any doubt remaining — the serious defense and national security 
issues raised by the whole UFO phenomenon. 


Over the years, there have been a number of films taken by military aircraft through gun 
cameras. Now, unfortunately, this film footage does not seem to exist anymore, but one of my 
predecessors who headed up the division where I worked under its previous title of DS8, that is 
Defense Secretariat 8, was a man called Ralph Noyes. He is someone who, before his death, also 
as a Ministry of Defense employee, spoke out publicly about the reality of the UFO phenomenon 
and made the point to all who would listen that there was a serious phenomenon here, and it did 
need and deserve serious study. Now, Ralph certainly did see those bits of film footage [gun 
camera footage of UFOs from military aircraft]. Ralph told me — and indeed, I think his 
testimony has gone onto the written record as well — that he was called to a briefing of senior 
Air Force personnel, and that they all gathered around to look at some of this footage that had 
come after a chase where a military jet had been sent up to try and get a closer look at a UFO. 
Ralph Noyes told me that he and all these people on the Air Staff just sat around gasping with 
astonishment — looking, pointing, wondering — but frankly, not able to really take it that much 
further, except, again, the implicit acknowledgement that there are things operating in our 
airspace that have better capabilities than we do. 


When I say that, of course, I include the point about prototype craft, because one of the points 
that is often put forward about the UFO phenomenon is the fairly reasonable question: Couldn’t 
it be that what you are seeing when you talk about structured craft with high speeds and 
extraordinary maneuvers, is just the next generation of Air Force planes — prototype devices, 
whether they be aircraft or remotely piloted vehicles? 




212 






Well, speaking as a serving member of the Ministry of Defense and having done the UFO job 
for three years, I can tell anyone who makes that point that yes, of course, at any given time, there 
are prototype aircraft and devices that we operate, but we know where we operate our own bits of 
kit. We operate them in very carefully controlled and defined ranges and danger areas, and we do 
not make mistakes about UFOs and prototypes. We don’t go chasing UFOs if it’s a prototype. 
We can tell the difference. 


So, when the public sees something — who knows? It depends where they see it. But, when 
we’re talking about military sightings, and when we’re talking about the research and 
investigation that I did, if I had stumbled onto a prototype test, then “A” I would have known, and 
“B” if I hadn’t known, I would have been told. And, of course we would have butted out of that 
pretty quick. 


Britain’s most famous UFO case is the Randelsham Forest incident, which is sometimes also 
referred to as the Bentwaters Case. That involved a series of UFO incidents over a number of 
nights in December of 1980, involving nominally the Royal Air Force Bases, but in fact, they 
were operated by the United States Air Force. They were RAF Bentwaters and RAF Woodbridge 
in Suffolk. 


[See the testimony of Larry Warren, Lori Rehfeldt, Clifford Stone, Lord Hill-Norton, et al. 


SGJ 




Now, in this case, there were a series of encounters where some people saw lights in the sky 
performing extraordinary maneuvers, but much more significantly, on the first night of activity, 
people saw a structured metallic craft actually moving — not up in the sky — but right down 
pretty much at ground level. It was moving through Randelsham Forest, which adjoins the two 
bases. At one point, this small metallic, roughly triangular-shaped craft seemed to actually come 
down and land in a particular clearing. 


Now, all the witnesses to this are military personnel: they’re trained observers; they don’t 
make mistakes. Some of the skeptics have suggested that this could have been a mistaken 
sighting of a nearby lighthouse. That’s nonsense for two reasons: firstly, these were trained 
military observers who actually were familiar with the lighthouse and saw it pretty much every 
night of their tour of duty, [and] secondly, certainly at one point in the encounter, the lighthouse 
was clearly visible at the same time as the UFO. So, this simply could not have been the 
lighthouse, as the skeptics sometimes suggest. 


Although this case predated my own tour of duty by ten years, a little more, I reviewed the 
case and I looked through the file. I tried to reopen the investigation into this incident. The most 
important thing that I was able to focus on was, in fact, physical evidence that something had 
taken place, because after this craft had touched down, people went back in the light of day to the 
landing site and found that where they’d seen this craft land there were, in fact, three triangular 
indentations on the forest floor. What I mean by that is there were three indentations which, 
when you drew lines between them, were pretty much in the shape of a perfect equilateral 
triangle. 


One of the things that was done, was that the area was checked for radiation. This is where I 
came in. I took the readings that were taken, [and] it’s important to say these readings peaked in 
two places: they peaked in the indentations themselves, and also [in] some damage that was done 
to the sides of the trees in the clearing — as if this thing had come down and snapped off some 
branches and stripped off some bark; as it had done so either coming in or going out. 




213 






I sent the figures that had been recorded at the time by Lieutenant Colonel Charles Halt, who 
was the deputy base commander — himself a witness at some of these incidents. I sent the data 
from Halt and his team to the Defense Radiological Protection Service, which is part of the 
Ministry of Defense. They came back to me, and they were frankly bemused by this whole thing, 
and they said that the radiations from the indentations in the ground were ten times background 
for that area — ten times what they should have been. 


Now of course, it is important to say that the levels were still comparatively low: Halt and 
his team were not endangered by this. This was still low-level radiation. But again, looking at it 
from a scientific point of view, that’s not the point. The point is that when compared with control 
readings immediately outside of the area, you had this peak of ten times normal right where this 
craft came down on the forest floor. 


So, that, I think is extremely significant, because it involved sightings by trained military 
observers and, also, at one point, this craft was tracked on radar from a nearby base, RAF Watten. 
So, you had sightings on radar, sightings by trained military personnel, and after the event, in the 
cold light of day, the undeniable, scientific, methodological evidence of the radiation readings. 
So, that, by anyone’s standards, has to be an extremely significant event, and proof, I think, 
beyond all question of doubt, that there was an unknown craft in that particular clearing on that 
particular night. 


I have seen witness statements from the military personnel, and I’ve heard testimony from 
some of those involved that suggests that much more went on that particular night, than even 
went into the file that ended up in the Ministry of Defense. 


There are also incidents where it’s claimed that UFOs have taken an extreme interest in 
civilian nuclear power stations, military installations with nuclear assets, etc. 


[At the time it was secret that nuclear weapons were at the Bentwaters Air Force Base under 
U.S. control. SG] 


During my tour of duty in Secretariat Air Staff at the Ministry of Defense, I operated a very 
open policy with regard to the UFO issue. I made it my business to be quite open and honest 
about the official research and investigation that I was doing, and not to suppress any data on this. 
I believe that governments and the military, and indeed private researchers, politicians — 
whoever — should place everything in the public domain on this issue. Governments can’t, I 
think, have it both ways. You cannot say on the one hand, as the party line often goes, that UFOs 
are of no defense significance, and then on the other, keep back some of the data. 


You simply can’t do that. You have to have it one way, or the other. And if, as governments 
consistently say when the politicians probe on this issue or when the media inquire, that there’s 
really nothing to worry about, then okay, let’s see all the data. Let’s check that that decision is a 
valid one, reached through a proper methodology. 


I, in support of that aim, believe that there should be a full disclosure of all information on 
UFOs held by governments all around the world. I think there are some encouraging signs that 
that’s beginning to happen. I know, for example, that early in 2000 at a conference in San 
Marino, which was part sponsored by the Ministry of Tourism there, so it had an official flavor to 
it, the Italian Air Force actually sent a delegation on duty, in uniform, to talk about UFO cases 
received by the Italian Air Force and Ministry of Defense over the years. I’m also aware that this 




214 






has happened in Chile. As I’ve said, my own efforts to try and be very open with this and to push 
data into the public domain as well, I hope, have taken the issue forward somewhat. 


Yes, I am a supporter of total openness and honesty on this issue. Clearly, it’s a very 
important issue: one that raises important defense and national security issues, but these are not 
issues that should be addressed by a small clique and any one grouping of people. These are 
issues of global significance, which should be addressed and debated by everyone. Indeed, we 
cannot make a full and proper assessment of the phenomenal data we have, without bringing in 
all sorts of people — scientists, politicians, military experts — in a much wider way than perhaps 
this information is available now. 


I’ve made no secret of the fact that I believe some of these UFOs may well be of 
extraterrestrial origin. I know that that’s an extraordinary statement for a serving officer in the 
Ministry of Defense to make. I don’t make it, of course, as an official announcement — it is me 
speaking in a private capacity — but it is me speaking on the basis of three years official research 
and investigation; three years of me looking at new sightings coming in, and reviewing the 250 or 
300-odd case files held by either the Ministry of Defense or the Public Record Office on the UFO 
issue, some of which were classified secret at the time. So, I don’t make these statements lightly, 
and I don’t do so on the basis of a blind leap of faith. I do it on the basis of the data held by 
government. 


It’s important, as well, to say that I am not alone in this assessment; that even within the 
Ministry of Defense in Britain and at the Air Force and indeed political establishment, I am not a 
lone voice here. The Ministry of Defense is not a great indivisible organization — like anything 
else, it is a collection of individuals. So, when you talk about government, the military, and the 
establishment — whatever grouping you talk about — what you’re really talking about is a group 
of individuals. 


I’ve found that there are skeptics and believers in the world of officialdom, and there are 
more believers in an extraterrestrial presence than many might expect — particularly in the Air 
Force. When you go out and speak to the Air Force in Britain, somebody may have had a 
sighting, somebody may have tracked an uncorrelated target on radar, or [have seen] it do 
maneuvers that we couldn’t possibly match. Either somebody has had these experiences 
themselves, or knows of somebody — a friend, a colleague — who’s had the same thing. 


At the beginning of my tour of duty, I did make some effort to establish a dialogue with 
opposite numbers, particularly in America. I was given the party line, I guess, that officially the 
Americans had been out of UFO investigations since 1969, when Project Blue Book was closed 
down. I didn’t, frankly, have time to follow that up and probe deeper. 


SG: How much assistance did your investigations receive from, for example, the NSA 


facility at Menwith Hill or the National Reconnaissance Office satellite programs that do 
reconnaissance? Did you receive any confirmations from those entities or assistance from those 
entities? 


NP: I don’t want to talk, I’m afraid, about any liaison with certain agencies on this. All I 
will say, in very general terms, is that if I had a particularly interesting case on which I felt I 
needed assistance from any other agency, with any other capability or bit of hardware, then, I 
would ask through channels. But really, most of the UFO cases that came my way I was happy 
with the assets that I had, and really did day-to-day research and investigation using national 




215 






assets such as the UK Air Defense Region radar stations, the ballistic missile early warning center 
at RAF Filingdales, and such like. I don’t want to go much further than that. 


Suffice to say that there have been a steady stream, over the years, of good-quality cases 
which 1 think would convince any open-minded observer who actually looked at the data, that 
there was something here which went significantly further than just lights in the sky. And 
something which, whatever the claims that are sometimes made about this phenomenon, suggests 
that something of extreme defense significance is happening, not just in UK airspace, but indeed I 
think, in airspace all around the world. 


In Britain, at the Public Record Office at present, there are about thirty UFO files open to the 
public. In total, I believe, there are between around about 250 and 300 files. Some of those were 
classified secret; now, of course, [are] declassified. Britain will get its Freedom of Information 
Act shortly. I hope and believe that most, if not all, of the British government and military UFO 
files will soon be released. 


What there is, however, is a body of evidence which when placed end to end and looked at by 
any dispassionate observer with any military or scientific experience, will constitute proof of the 
reality of this phenomenon. 


One important fact about the British wave of sightings in March, 1993, was that it happened 
three years to the very night after the wave of sightings that rocked the establishment in Belgium, 
and led to the scrambling of F- 16s. That, again, was late on the 30 th and in the early hours of the 
31 st of March. So, it’s one of those very interesting facts that perhaps two of Europe’s most 
significant UFO waves actually happened on the very same night of the year, three years apart. 


Although it predated my involvement, one of the most significant waves of sighting in 
Europe took place over Belgium in March of 1990. On that occasion, UFOs were seen by large 
numbers of people on the ground, and tracked on radar, resulting in two F-16 fighter interceptors 
being scrambled. These aircraft then picked up the UFOs themselves on their airborne radar, and 
an intriguing game of cat and mouse played itself out in the skies of Belgium over the next hour 
or so. 


Although that happened before I was posted into Secretariat Air Staff, I made contact with 
the British air attache in Brussels. I asked him, really for my own peace of mind and for my own 
background research, to confirm the reality of that. He had certainly spoken directly to one or 
both of the F-16 pilots and to the senior military officer involved in this, Colonel DeBrouer. And 
certainly the word that came back to me officially, via our embassy, was yes, this incident 
happened pretty much as reported. 


Y es, there was a solid-structured craft there, which made some maneuvers way ahead of the 
F-16s. And as a sort of unofficial aside, there was a comment going around the Belgian Air Staff, 
which was to the effect of, “Thank goodness they were friendly.” 


[See the testimony of Clifford Stone regarding the Belgian events and the official government 
documents. SGJ 




216 












Headquarters No. 11 Group 




To : Soe Distribution Lict 


Date : 6th December, 1960 


Ref : 110/S. 1003/7/Air lilt. 




1. Recent reports on aerial phenomena show that some units/ 9 
are unaware of this Headquarters letter reference 11G/0.28D2/ 
G/lnt. dated 16th December, 1953, and Fleeter Command Head- 
quarters letter FC/S, 45405/s Ignale, dated' 13th January, 1963, 
which was cent to Head quart era Metropolitan and Southern 
Sectors (for onward transmission to appropriate Radar unita)_^l 


under reference 11G/S. 3251/OPS. C & R, dated 21st January, — . 


1953. These letters* reive instructions fir reporting and the * 
action to be taken in regard to the detection of unusual 
aerial phenomena. So that units may know the action to be 
taken in future sightings, tlie letters referred to above are 
summarised in the following paragraphs. 


2. Sighting* of aerial phenomena by Royal Air Force 
personnel ore to be reported in writing Officers Commanding 
Units immediately and directed to Air Ministry (D. D. I. (Tech, ) ) 
with copies to Group and Command Headquarters. In addition, 
any reports from civilians received by units should be acknow- 
ledged formally in writing and copies of [the reports themselves 
forwarded direct to Air Ministry (D. D. I. ((Tech,;). 


5. It will bo appreciated that the public attach more 
credence to reports by Royal Air Force personnel than to those 
by members of the public. It is eosentilal that the information 
should be examined at Air hiinistiy and that its release oliould 
be controlled officially. All reports are, therefore, to be 
classified "CONFIDENTIAL" and personnel a re to be warned that 
they are not to communicate to anyone otlwr than official 
persona any information about phenomena they have observed, 
unless officially authorised to do so. 


4. Radar detection of unusual targets Is to be reported by 
stations through the normal channels. 'Ijhey should make a 
special report of any unusual response, 1J. e. any responses 
moving at a ground speed exceeding 700 letjs. at any height and 
at any speed above 60,000 feet. 


5. When an unusual ; re sponsu io seen, the supervisor or N. C. 0. 
i/c watch, should bo informed and he should then check that the 
echo is not spurious, and arrange for the necessary records to 
be made to provide the information liote<j in para. G below, 


6. Reports on such phenomena should contain, a personal 
assessment of, and where applicable a copy of. the followihi':- 




217 








Unident i fied Objects at ffest Freugh 




1. On the morning of April 4th radar operators at Vfest Preugh detected 
.Unidentified objects on the screens of their radars. Aj summary of this 


ncident is given below. I . i 


2. The object was first observed as s stationary return on the screen of 
~ rdar at Balscallooh. Although its range remained appreciably constant 


or about 10 minutes its height appeared to alter from about 50*000 to 
70,000 ft. A second radar was switched on snd detected the "object" at the 
--ame range and height. 


0 . The radar sets used were capble of following objects automatically 
besides being manually operated. The information is obtained in the form 
P polar coordinates but it can be converted to give pl^n position indication 
ogether with heights. ThiB information can be fed into aplotting board 
which displays the position of the object by means of an electronically 
— Derated pen, while the height is shown on a meter. 




4. The unidentified objeot was tracked on the plotting table, each radar 
^eing switched on to the table in turn to check for discrepancies. After 
:maining at one spot for about ten minutes the pen movpd slowly in a N.E. 
uirection, and gradually increased speed. A speed check was taken which 
showed a ground speed of 70 m.p.h., the height was thenj 54,000 ft. 


„ , A t this .time another radar station 20 miles aw ay, equipped with the aam£— 
type o f radars . was ns*- — tn ■»■■»»)»»■<'»«■ nn "wUJwuV. A Bcno was plcked' v up j 
tire range and bearing given and the radar was "looked-on". 


6. After the "object" hss travelled about 20 miles it j made a very sharp 
turn and proceeded to move S.E. at the same time increasing Bpeed. Here the 
j ports of the two radar stations differ in details. The wo at Balscallooh 
1 acked an"obJect" st about 50,000 ft at a speed of about 240 m.p.h. while 
the other followed an "object" or "oblects" at 14,000 ft. As the "objects" 
t- Bvelled toward b the second radar site the operator detected four "objects" 


* ving in line astern about 4,000 yardB from each other. This observation 
was confirmed later by the other radars, for when the object they were plotting 
passed out of range they were able to detect four other Ismaller objects before 
t sy too passed out of range. j 


7_._ It. was noted by- the radar opora.t err. that the sizes of the eohoes were 
r n3iderably larger than would be expected from normal aircraft. In fact they 
c nsidered that the size was nesrer that of a ship's echo. 


8 — It is deduced from these reports that altogether fi^ve objects were detected 
t the three radars. At least one of these rose to an altitude of 70,000 ft 
while remaining appreciably stationary in azimuth and range. All of these objects 
appeared to be capable of spe=ds of about 240 m.p.h. Nothing can be said of 
p ysical construction of the objects except that they were very effective 
r ."lectors of radar signals, and that they must have been either of considerable 
size or else constructed to be especially good reflectors. 


3 There were not known to be sny aircraft in the vicinity nor were there any 
neteorological balloons. Even if balloons had been in the ores these would not 
account for the sudden change of direction and the movement at high speed against 
t s prevailing wind. 




10. Another point which has been considered is that the type of radar used is 
: -mble of locking onto heavily charged clouds. Clouds of this nature could 
s :end up to the heights in question and cause abnormally large echoes on the 


1 218 “ ° wo a f n Rimh 




218 








D.D.I.(Tech) 
30th April 1957 




j 




0 c 


1 D » • 


^ w> . 


0 P- P* 
3* K n 
t» ft o 


1 H c+ I 


OQ << P* 
CD 3 


P* C+CX3 I 


o P> o 
h-* d- 
O *-k i 


C rf- CD 


a 7 O 




m ffi (t h 




* O 
CD 


2 c 


0 p. 


O pi 


3 s 


CD Cf 
3 P- 
c+ *"D 
P* p. 
O CD 
3 Cb 
03 


P» c* 


P.'S 


3 


O 0 
3 3 


0 Pi 


P> 


Ct- t) 
■" 2. 
3 OQ 
CD P- 


ST 3 


ft • 


o 


3 


O M 
M ct- 


O 


CQ P- 


p- CO 


o 


P.8 
o' 5 


0 p. 
p* pi 
I-* CD 
O >1 
O ft 
.3 Pi 




I# 










- 219 - 




219 










INQUIRE: D0C10D • 


ITEM N0=00508802 *" J 


- ENVELOPE ' 


CDSN = LGX391 1 MCN = 90089/26558 f TOR = 9009010H8 I 
/•* RTTCZYUW RUEKJCS5049 089125I-CCCC--RUEALGX. 


ZNY CCCCC ■ 


... HEADER r V . . 


R 301251Z MAR 90 
FM JOINT STAFF WASHINGTON DC 
INFO RUEADWD/OCSA WASHINGTON DC 
RUENAAA/CNO WASHINGTON DC 
RUEAHQA/CSAF WASHINGTON DC 


fi RUEACMC/CMC WASHINGTON DC • <■' 


Ki -RUEDADA/AFIS AMHS BOLLING AFB DC V i • 


m ' RUFTAKA/CDR USAINTELCTRE HEIDELBERG GE .-*>.*.« v S ,-: 


3 RUFGAID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE $S£ # r 


RUETIAQ/MPCFTGEORGEGMEADEMD It ’ V>5 si- > 


V .RUEAMCC/CMC CC WASHINGTON DC ' 


■ , T * RUEALGX/SAFE- V • • - 


■ £*R R01 246Z MAR 90 ' • V vx x { 


FMBniiiiH 


TO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC • i 


INFO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC//DAT-7// 


RUSNNOA/USCINCEUR VAIHINGEN GE//ECJ2-CC/ECJ2-JIC// 


, • " RUFGAID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE 


’ RHFQAAA/HQUSAFE RAMSTEIN AB GE//INOW/INO// 


.. £ RHFPAAA/UTAIS RAMSTEIN AB GE//INRMH/INA// 


: RHDLCNE/CINCUSNAVEUR LONDON UK 
i RUFHNA/USDELMC BRUSSELS BE 
f j RUFHNA/USMISSION USNATO 


RUDOGHA/USNMR SHAPE BE ! 


RUEAIIA/CIA WASHDC *■ 


. 1 RUFGAID/ J ICEUR VAIHINGEN GE 


- RUCBSAA/FICEURLANT NORFOLK VA 
RUEKJCS/SECDEF WASHDC 


- RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC 
RUEADWW/WHITEHOUSE WASHDC 
RUFHBG/AMEMBASSY LUXEMBOURG 


; RUEATAC/CDRUSAITAC WASHDC 


bt . . • j ••• * 


“ CONTROLS -'. 1 - J '■ j • 


r section 02 BUBUSESI 05049 




SERIAL: . (U) HR 6 807 0136 90. 




COUNTRY : (U) BELGIUM (BE). 




fsUBJ: IIR 6.807 01 36 90/BELGIUM AND THE UFO ISSUE 




' WARNING: 




(U) THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, 




NOT FINALLY 




PAGE:001 1 


... V P 










220 








VALUATED INTELLIGENCE . REPORT CLASSIFIED 




DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 




Ol: (U) 900326. 




OURCS: A- (U) LA DERNIER HEURE, 20 MAR, DAILY FRENCH 


JUJCDAGE PAPER, CIRC 100,000; B- (0) LE SOIR, 26 MAR. 
IAILY FRENCH LANCUACE PAPER, CIR C 213.000 




PAGE; 00 12 




• . 11 • -t . • f ViA* :* **_• 


SUMMARY; (U) NUMEROUS UFO SICHTINGS HATE BEEN MADE IN 
1ELCIUM SINCE NOV 89. THE CREDIBILITY OF SOME INDIVIDUALS 
1AXINC THE REPORTS IS COOD. SOME SICHTINCS HAVE KEEN 
EXPLAINED BY NATURAL/MANMADE PHENOMENA , SOME HAVE NOT. 
INVESTIGATION BY THE BAF CONTINUES. 


\JL.- t -* 


rEXT: 1.’” <U) NUMEROUS AND VARIOUS ACCOUNTS OF UFO 


SIGNTXNGS HAVE SURFACED IN BELCIUH OVER THE PAST FEW 
MONTHS. 1 THE CREDIBILITY OF THE OBSERVERS OF THE ALLEDGED 
EVENTS VARIES FROM THOSE UHO ARE UNSOPHISTICATED TO THOSE 
WHO ARE THE HELL EDUCATED AND PROMINENTLY PLACED. 




2. (U) SOURCE A CITES MR LEON BRENIC, A A3 YEAR OLD 
PROFESSOR AT THE FREE UNIVERSIY OF BRUSSELS (PROMINENT) IN 
THE FIELD OF STATISTICS AND PHYSICS. HE CLAIMS TO HAVE 
TAKEN PICTURES OF THE PHENOMENA WHICH ARE STILL BEING 
DEVELOPED. BUT WILL BE PUBLISHED BY THE BELGIAN SOCIETY FOR 
THE STUDY OF SPACE PHENOMENA IF THEY ARE OF GOOD QUALITY. 1 


1 ft 


3 . (U) MR BRENIC WAS DRIVING ON THE ARDENNES AUTOROUTE IN 
THE 8EAUFAYS REGION EAST OF LIEGE, SUNDAY, 18 MARCH 1990 . 


AT 2030 HOURS WHEN HE OBSERVED AN AIRBORNE OBJECT 
APPROACHING It; HIS DIRECTION FROM THE NORTH. IT WAS IN 
THE FORM OF A TRIANGLE ABOUT THE SIZE OF A PINC-PONC BALL 
AND HAD A YELLOW LIGHT SURROUNDING IT WITH A REDDISH 
CENTER -VARYING IN INTENSITY. ALTITUDE APPEARED TO BE 500 | 


- 1000 METERS, MOVINC AT A SLOW SPEED WITH NO SOUND. IT | 
DID NOT MOVE OR BEHAVE LIKE AN AIRCRAFT. 


4. (U) HR BRENIG CONTACTED AFRIEND VERY NEAR THE AREA ! 
WHO CAME OUT AND TOOK PICTURES OF IT WITH A ZOOM LENS AND 
400 ASA FILM. . BOTH INSISTED THF. OBJECT COULD NOT BE AN 
AIRCRAFT OR HOLOCRAMME PROJECTION AS THE SKY WAS CLOUDLESS. 


5. (U) THE IDURCE B ARTICLE WHICH DISCUSSES A BELGIAN 
TELEVISION INTERVIEW WITH COL WIL ( (DEBROUVER)) , CHIEF OF 


OPERATIONS FOR THE BAF, MOST LIKELY WAS THE RESULT OF A 
FOLLOW-ON ACTION TAKEN BY MR BRENIG WHEN HE CONTACTED 
LTCEN • ( (TERRASSON) ) , COMMANDER, BELCIAN TACTICAL : ' 1 . 
(OPERATIONAL) COMMAND. GEN TERRASSON CATEGORICALLY 
ELIMINATED ANY POSSIBLE BAF AIRCRAFT OR ENGINE TEST 
INVOLVEMENT WHICH COL DEBROUWER CONFIRMED DURINC THE 25 




f5049 






... «*»t 




WAV 




PACE: 00 14 




>ri'2 rw.v: \. / • • '••.■* £“r •' *•» . * . . • 


ISQUIRF.sDOCIOD 


ITEM S0s0050329«» ' ."r> 


StTcx«92 MCN = 90089/26566 TOR = 9(0891502 
K TTCZVUW RUEKJCS50*19 089125 1 -CCCC--RUEALGX . 


ZNX CCCCC ' . *; . 


HEADER ’■ • ,■ i «" C! ' 


R .3012512 MAR. 90 ... V • 


FM JOINT STAFF WASHINGTON DC . , ■ 


'INFO RUEADWD/OCSA WASHINGTON DC ^ .(/. 


- RUENAAA/CNO WASHINGTON DC ... 


* ROEAHQA/CSAF WASHINGTON DC „ - 


• RUEACMC/CHC WASHINGTON DC * ^ 


RUEDADA/AFIS AMHS BOLLING AFB DC 
RUFTAKA/CDR USA I NTELCTRE HEIDELBERC GE 
RUFGAID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE 


RUETIAQ/MPCFTCEORGECMEADEMD 1 


ROEAMCC/CMC CC WASHINGTON DC 
kuealgx/safe •■.''••• 


R, 3012462 MAR 90 •, 


fm{BBBBBSB1 


TO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC ‘ - • .. v 


INFO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC//DAT-7 / / ■* 
RUSNNOA/USCINCEUR VAIHINGEN CE//ECJ2-0C/ECJ2-JIC// 
RUFGA I D/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE r. 
RHFQAAA/HQUSAFE RAMSTEIN AB CE//INOW/INO// 
RHFPAAA/UTAIS RAHSTEIN AB GE/ /INRMH/INA/ / 
RHDLCNE/CINCUSNAVEUR LONDON UK 
; RUFHNA/USDELMC BRUSSELS BE - • ■■ 


RUFHNA/USMISSION USNATO '*?• \ 


RUDOGHA/USNMR SHAPE BE 
RUEAIIA/CIA WASHDC 
RUFGAID/JICEUR VAIHINGEN CE 
SbJCBSAA/FICEURLANT NORFOLK VA . 


, RUEKJCS/SECDEF WASHDC 
RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC 
RUEADWW/WHITEHOUSE WASHDC 
RUFHBG/ AHEKB ASSY LUXEMBOURG 
RUEATAC/CDRUSAITAC WASHDC • . 


BT 


CONTROLS * * '• 


SECTION 02 OF 02 WUW** 




SERIAL: (U) HR 6 807 0136 90. 


•' BODY & ‘ — ' 


:■.< COUNTRY:> (U) BELGIUM (BE). 


• » • • 


"iSUBJ: XIR 6 807 '0136 90/ BELCIUM AND THE UFO ISSUE: (U) 


•••■ -V : • (V • 


MAR TV -SHOW. 






PACE:0015 




..*6. (U) DRF.TOUUEH NOTED THE LARCE NUMBER OF REPORTED j £ 


SIGHTINGS • PARTICULAR!- 1 IN NOV 89 IN THE LIEGE AREA AND 1 
, THAT THE EAc’ AND MOD ARE TAKING THE ISSUE SERIOUSLY. BAP 
J* EXTORTS KAVJ NOT BEEN ABLE TO EXPLAIN THE PHENOMENA EITHER. 


7. (U) DESROUVER SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSED THE POSSIBILITY 
m OF THE OBJECTS BEINC USAF B-2 OR F-117 STEALTH AIRCRAFT 


. WHICH WOULD NOT APPEAR ON BELGIAN RADAR, BUT MIGHT BE 
‘ SIGHTED VISUALLY IF THEY WERE OPERATING AT LOW ALTITUDE IW 
THK ARDENNES AREA. HE MADE IT QUITE CLEAR THAT NO USAF 
' 1 OVERFLIGHT REQUESTS HAD EVER BEEN RECEIVED FOR THIS TYPE 
’ MISSION AND THAT THE ALLEDGED OBSERVATIONS DID NOT 
'•"C CORRESPOND IN ANY WAY TO THE OBSERVABLE CHARACTERISTICS OF 
EITHER U.S. AIRCRAFT. ' - • 


: I , <. . ■,!■) j 


8. (U) MR BRENIG HAS SINCE ASSURED THE COMMUNITY THAT HE 
IS PERSONALLY ORGANIZING A NEW UFO OBSERVATION CAMPAIGN 
AND SPECIFICALLY REQUESTS THE HELP OF THE BELGIAN MOD. 


: AV • . i 


9. ■■EOKEa RELATED A SIMILAR UFO SICKTINC WHICH 
’ !* APPARENTLY HAPPENED TO A BELGIAN AIR FORCE OFFICER IN THE 


SAME AREA NEAR LIECE DURING NOVEMBER 89. THE OFFICER AD 
• HIS WIFE WERE ALLEDCEDLY BLINDED BY A HUCE BRIGHT FLYING 
OBJECT AS THEY WERE DRIVING ON THE AUTOROUTE. THEY 
, STOPPED THEIR CAR, BUT WERE SO FRIGHTENED THEY ABANDONED 
,, THE VEHICLE AND RAN INTO THE WOODS. THEY COULD NOT 
PROVIDE A DETAILED DESCRIPTION BUT . WHATEVER IT WAS j - 
DEFINITELY APPEARED REAL TO THEM. UNDERLINED 


1 < THEIR CREDIBILITY AS SOLID. 


. i, COMMENTS: 1. BBBBHH COMMENT. HE COULD PROVIDE 
.VERY LITTLE CONCRETE INFORMAITON EXCEPT TO VERIFY THE} 1 -* , 


> LARGE VOLUME OF SICHTTNOS AND THE SIMILARITY OF SOME 
■ DURING NOV 89 








, 2. ■■^■LTKE BAF HAS MULED SOME S1CKTINCS WERE CAUSED BY 
’• INVERSION LAYERS, LAZER BEAMS AND OTHER FORMS OF MICH 
Y,: INTENSITY LICHTINC KITTING CLOUDS. BUT A REMARKABLE i 
i NUMBER OCCURRED ON CLEAR NIGHTS WITH NO OTHER EXPLAINABLE 
ACTIVITY NEARBY. - 


. f i , > < s . i 


3. MHBTHE BAF IS CONCERNED TO A POINT ABOUT THE UFO 
* ISSUE AND IS TAK ING ACTION TO INVESTIGATE INFORMATION THE! 
?• HAVE. IMBSSSH DOES ADMIT. HOWEVER. THAT HE IS NOT 
■ o- OPTIMISTIC ABOUT RESOLVING THE PROBLEM. 


’.f ‘i.‘ HBB I FIELD COMMENT. THE USAF DID CONFIRM TO THE BAF 
5 AND BELGIAN MOD THAT NO USAF STEALTH AIRCRAFT WERE 
"Z OP B UM ma IN THE ARDENNES AREA DURING THE PERIODS IN 


T QUESTION. THIS WAS RELEASED TO THE BELCIAN TRESS AND 
RECEIVED HIDE DISSEMINATION. 


a,'--' ■ 




PACE :001b 




f rn<: w 


INSTR: (U) US NO. V 


* PREP: 


' ACQ: 


DISSEM: (U) FIELD: AMEMBASSY BRU SSELS (PCM). 


WARNING: (U) REPORT CLASSIFIED 




BT 


#5049 
















Testimony of Admiral Lord Hill-Norton 


July 2000 


[We are grateful to James Fox for sharing this interview.] 


Lord Hill-Norton is a five-star Admiral and the former Head of the British Ministry of 
Defense who was kept in the dark about the UFO subject during his official capacities. 


In this short interview, he states that this subject has great significance and should no 
longer be denied and kept secret. He emphatically states, “...that there is a serious 
possibility that we are being visited — and have been visited for many years — by 
people from outer space, from other civilizations; that it behooves us to find out who 
they are, where they come from, and what they want. This should be the subject of 
rigorous scientific investigation, and not the subject of rubbishing by tabloid 
newspapers.” 


I know a good bit about the Bentwaters incident. I’ve interviewed a number of the people 
who took part in it, and what I have decided after careful thought, is that there are only two 
explanations for what happened that night in Suffolk. The first is that the people concerned — 
including C olonel Halt, who was, at the time, the Deputy C ommander of the Base, and a lot of his 
soldiers — claim that something from outside the Earth’s atmosphere landed at their air force 
base. They went and stood by it; they inspected it; they photographed it. 


The following day they took tests on the ground where it had been and found radioactive 
traces; they reported this. Colonel Halt wrote a memorandum, which was sent to our Ministry of 
Defense. He has appeared on British television at least once, to my knowledge — possibly more 
often — in which he has repeated, effectively, what he said in that memorandum. What he said is 
what I have just described. That is one explanation — that it actually happened as Colonel Halt 
reported. 


The other explanation is that it didn’t. In that case, one is bound to assume that Colonel Halt 
and all his men were hallucinating. My position is perfectly clear — either of those explanations 
is of the utmost defense interest. It has been reported and claimed — and I, myself, have raised it 
to ministers at the Defense Ministry in this country — that nothing they have been informed 
about regarding UFOs is of defense interest. Surely, to any sensible person, either of those 
explanations cannot fail to be of defense interest. That the Colonel of an American Air Force 
Base in Suffolk and his military men are hallucinating when there are nuclear-armed aircraft on 
the base — this must be of defense interest. 


And, if indeed what he says took place, did take place — and why on Earth should he make it 
up — then, surely, the entry of a vehicle from outer space (and certainly not manmade) to a 
defense base in this country also cannot fail to be of defense interest. It simply isn’t any good for 
our ministers — and the Ministry of Defense in particular — to say that nothing took place that 
December night in Suffolk, or that it is not of defense interest. It simply isn’t true. 


Since my name has become connected with UFO matters in quite a big way in this country, 
and in one or two other countries too, I have frequently been asked why a person of my 
background — a former Chief of the Defense Staff, a former Chairman of the NATO Military 
Committee — why I think there is a cover-up, or what the reasons may be for government’s 
wishing to cover up the facts about UFOs. A number of explanations have often been put 
forward. The most frequent, and perhaps the most plausible, is the government’s concern (which 
[is] primarily that of the United States, and that of my own country) over the public’s reaction if 




224 






they [were] told the truth — which is that there are objects in our atmosphere which are 
technically miles in advance of anything that we can deploy, that we have no means of stopping 
them coming here, and that we have no defense against them, should they be hostile. 


1 believe governments fear that if they did disclose those facts, people would panic: people 
would rush about and jam switchboards like they did that famous day in New Jersey, when there 
was a spoof that the Martians [had] landed — people will go mad, and they will jump up and 
down. 1 don’t believe that at all — I’ve said so in print. I do not believe that people today, in the 
21 st century, are going to panic at that sort of information. After all, they have put up with the 
introduction of nuclear weapons and the destruction of two Japanese cities 50 years ago. They 
take as a matter of course that we can land vehicles on Mars — land to the precise instant, 
forecast years before. So why should they panic? They are much more interested in doing the 
pools or the lottery. They would shrug their shoulders and take it as a matter of course. Anyway, 
they don’t trust politicians, in my experience. 


What I’d like to say is that there is a serious possibility that we are being visited — and have 
been visited for many years — by people from outer space, from other civilizations; that it 
behooves us to find out who they are, where they come from, and what they want. This should be 
the subject of rigorous scientific investigation, and not the subject of rubbishing by tabloid 
newspapers. 


It seems to me that the Bentwaters incident is a classic case where an apparent intrusion into 
our airspace — and indeed, a landing in our country — occurred, which was witnessed by 
serious-minded people in the military — responsible people, doing a responsible job. And, 
Bentwaters is, in a sense, a benchmark for how not to deal with these matters in the future. 


[See the testimony of Larry Warren, MOD official Nick Pope, Clifford Stone, Lori Rehfeldt, 
and others regarding the Bentwaters landing event in the UK. I should also mention that I 
personally spent a couple of hours with Lord Hill-Norton, and he was very concerned about the 
secrecy surrounding this subject — and the fact that he had been deceived about it. 
Notwithstanding his five star Admiral status and his position as fanner head of the Ministry of 
Defense, he was never officially briefed on the subject. This is consistent with my experiences 
with President Clinton ’s staff and his first Director of Central Intelligence (CIA Director j James 
Woolsey, senior members of Congress, very senior Pentagon officials, including the Director of 
Intelligence (J-2) for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and a sitting Director of the Defense Intelligence 
Agency (DIA) — all of whom I have personally briefed, and had been left out of the loop on this 
very important matter — or were directly denied information when inquiries were made. This is, 
of course, a dangerous situation. The secrecy itself is a great threat to the national — and world 
— security, makes a mockery > of democracy and our constitutional form of government, and must 
be corrected by official action. SGJ 


Testimony of Security Officer Larry Warren, United States Air Force 


September 2000 


Larry Warren was a security officer at Bentwaters Air Force Base in the United 
Kingdom. He was present during an event in 1980 when an extraterrestrial vehicle 
landed, hovered, and interacted with Air Force personnel on base. Afterwards, the 
many personnel who had witnessed the events were intimidated, debriefed, and forced 
to sign documents telling a false version of the story. Warren’s testimony is 
corroborated by multiple other military witnesses who have been identified. There are 
official documents related to this event; there is a photograph related to the event; and 




225 






there is physical landing-trace evidence. This entire event is also corroborated by 
Ministry of Defense official Nick Pope, and five-star Admiral, Sea Lord, former 
Ministry of Defense head Lord Hill-Norton, and Sergeant Clifford Stone. 


LW: Officer Larry Warren SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


LW: My name is Larry Warren. In December of 1980, I was assigned to the 81 st Tactical 
Fighter Wing in Suffolk, East Anglia, at the NATO Air Base Bentwaters, which is next to 
Woodbridge. I was a security specialist and worked with securing the nuclear arsenal we secretly 
housed there at that time. On December 11 th , 1980, my security clearance notice, PRP, came 
through and I was approved. My clearance was a secret clearance at that time. 


The UFO incident took place near Woodbridge, which is our sister base, six miles [away] and 
separated [from Bentwaters] by a pine forest known as Rendlesham Forest. I was into my second 
week on the flight line, working the night shift. 


We had just come off a break. The previous flight, C-flight, had a UFO encounter on Boxing 
Day [the first weekday after Christmas] morning, early in the hours — two nights before my 
event. A security policeman named John Burroughs and an Airman Parker were at the East Gate 
at Woodbridge. Airman Burroughs saw what appeared to be an object in the forest at the east end 
of the runway, just within the trees. There were multi-colored lights, and he suspected maybe an 
aircraft had crashed. He called in Central Security Control on Bentwaters and reported what he 
was seeing. A shift supervisor named Jim Penniston responded — he was a Staff Sergeant — 
[and] a few other personnel arrived. 


I wasn’t involved in this, but this is what I know of it: they pursued the phenomena into the 
woods — they definitely thought there was an air crash, and started to begin those procedures. . . 


They found that it was not an aircraft, but a triangular object about six feet at the base, that 
rose to a nine-foot point. It was black like glass, with a great density to it. They didn’t know if it 
was on a tripod or on legs of some sort, but it had multi-color lights around it. I do know this — 
based on his own testimony — that Sergeant Penniston and these men did bring their side-arms, 
which are 38-calibers that the law enforcement people carried. Sergeant Penniston drew his 
revolver when they encountered this object and saw clearly that it wasn’t anything they were 
familiar with. These are all highly trained observers — as we all were at that time — for aircraft 
or unusual things. Sergeant Penniston drew his revolver and aimed it at the object. 


At some point he approached this [phenomenon], very close to it, and observed a panel on its 
side with some sort of language similar to hieroglyphics. It was somewhat familiar to him, but he 
couldn’t identify the script. It was raised from the surface; he touched it and felt the surface — it 
felt warm to a degree, and [was] the texture of glass, almost — the consistency and hardness. 
They sensed there was movement within, through this opaque kind of glass. Sergeant Penniston 
heard a voice. These men had four hours of missing time [and] their radio communication had 
failed with the base. Luckily enough, some other personnel obviously did respond to see what 
was happening with these people — and some brought cameras and snapped some photos. 


[See the testimony of Sergeant Clifford Stone who confirms that film and photos were taken of 
these events and how they were handled. SG] 




226 






These men were debriefed the next morning. They were retrieved, dazed, [from] the forest; 
they made statements immediately. They were given injections of what they were told was 
sodium-pentathol by some element of the Air Force. 


Airman Burroughs told me directly that he knew within the next two days that this 
phenomenon was going to return — and it indeed did. Their shift had ended that day; my shift 
came on. 


There was evidence left by this encounter — pod indentations on the ground. The British 
Suffolk Constabulary responded to this the next morning, because it was an incident. It was 
reported to them from the Base Security Police Operations desk. Col. Charles Halt can explain 
this very accurately, because he was present on-site for the investigation. These pods were in a 
perfect nine-foot separation, forming a triangle. It represented something [weighing] two and 
one-half metric tons sitting down on the ground. There was a break in the canopy of the Corsican 
pines where something clearly came through it. There were background radiation readings taken, 
and Nick Pope can actually offer some more information on this via the Ministry of Defense. 


[See the important testimony of British MOD official Nick Pope which confirms this event 
and the radiation readings which were taken. SG] 


The readings were 25 times higher than the normal natural background radiation in that area. 
How these readings came up, is that Sergeant Nevels, who was the disaster preparedness man at 
the base at the time, had the Geiger counters and knew how to read them. These readings were 
taken from this ground-zero area — there was residual radiation on the trees and everything. 


I was put on a very remote post at the end of the RAF Bentwaters flight line, called Perimeter 
Post 18; it was an alert-man position. I went to my position. It was uneventful for about an hour 
and one-half. What I noticed first, was an animal disturbance where some deer ran down to a 
rather low fence we had at that time surrounding the base. This herd of deer jumped the fence and 
ran past my position, right over the runway. They seemed spooked, or I had that feeling. 


Suddenly, I started to hear chatter on the open frequencies. We had Motorola radios at that 
time. We had four channels of security police and operational active channels. I started to hear 
commentary about lights over the forest toward Woodbridge: “Those lights are back again,” and 
I was looking up. Suddenly, at this point I [got] a call from Lieutenant Bruce Englund, who is a 
security police officer. He was the shift commander at that time, and said, “Warren, deactivate 
your post. You are going to be picked up by a GOV,” which is government-operated vehicle. A 
truck pulled up and Sergeant Bustinza, who [was] my reporting officer, was the driver. 
Lieutenant Englund was in the passenger seat, and there were other personnel — new personnel 
like me — in the back. I was told to get in. We went immediately to the Bentwaters motor pool. 
There was a lot of chatter about people trying to find the Base CO [Commanding Officer], and 
they were saying, “Change frequencies, put all the radios down.” All of this, I must tell you, was 
recorded in CSC on the tapes they made of that night. Those were stolen, and so were the logs of 
that period — [Col.] Charles Halt can confirm this, also. They came up missing in a few days 
when he went looking — that list of personnel on duty and a lot of different things: incident 
reports and everything. They were gone. . . 


We had our NATO rounds in the weaponry, which is very unusual, and there was an urgency 
among senior people. We went down a logging trail into the forest, and there was an armored 
vehicle after [we got] about a half a mile into the woods. I haven’t talked about this in a while, 
because I wrote it and thought I’d never have to... The feeling in the forest was very strange. 




227 






Movement was odd. Perception was odd the minute we entered the forest. I will tell you this — 
there was a problem. Something was wrong. We pulled up. There were some other vehicles. 
They took our weapons off us. We broke up into four man units and headed down a trail into the 
forest. [Col.] Charles Halt was out there that night with a smaller party of senior people. 
Lieutenant Englund joined them at one point. There was a lot of radio contact, but we had to 
maintain radio silence — the lower ranking guys. But, I could hear on other open channels [the 
others] saying, “You guys coming in have to avoid those hotspots. We don’t want you walking 
all over them.” I think they had anticipated these objects returning. 


Sergeant Burroughs, by the way — from the first night — knew it was coming back, and 
arrived at the field, off-duty, in civilian clothes, obsessed to get back near the [phenomenon]. 


You can hear on the actual tape [Col.] Charles Halt made that night: one of the people on the 
perimeter securing an access to the forest, calling [Col.] Charles Halt on the radio, saying, 
“Airman Burroughs and two other individuals wish to rendezvous at your location.” And [Col.] 
Charles Halt responds, “Tell them negative at this time; we’ll tell them when they can come out 
here. We don’t want anyone out here right now.” This tape you will have, and [it] should be 
heard by all interested parties. 


What I saw — I wish it was much simpler than what it was. As we moved through this forest 
in this small group, I was with Sergeant Bustinza; Robert Ball was there, shift supervisor, and a 
lot of other people. We came to a clearing called Capel Green at the end of the Corsican pines, 
and there was a phenomenon on the ground in this field: it was like a mist; it looked like a fog on 
the ground. There was a cinematic film camera — a movie camera — present, and there was a 
very large video camera there — they were very large at that time. These came from public 
affairs on Bentwaters. There was anticipation of the return of the [phenomenon]. There is a trail 
on this film, which has been established; this isn’t just me talking. Anything I’m telling you can 
pretty much be backed up in any court of law — especially with the body of the evidence, and 
I’m willing to do that. 


I was observing this — it was like watching a movie. This mist was on the ground and it was 
being observed. There was disaster preparedness present. There was a house off to the left, a 
farmer’s house. I had never been out in this forest before. There was a light on in this house, so 
those people were home. There was a dog barking, I remember clearly. I saw a light come in. 
We could see the beam of the Orford Lighthouse in this clearing, by the way — very clearly. 
This case has been written off as a misidentification of this lighthouse — an exaggeration, or 
whatever. In reality, it has been there for over 100 years and was no surprise to anyone. This 
object, a red basketball-shaped object, came in from the North Sea area over the trees. I thought 
it was a taillight on an aircraft, but it moved so quickly. The mist on the ground appeared to have 
structure, and it was 50 feet across. This basketball-sized amber light didn’t seem solid — I 
couldn’t tell you what it was — but it was 20 feet above the object, this mist. As soon as I got a 
fix on that and everyone else did, the cameras were upon it — these people were reacting. Then 
there was an explosion — it’s very hard for me to describe it: this thing broke up into multiple 
shards of extremely bright light! 


I, and others, suffered bums to the eyes — I have documents of this, because I stole them 
from Bentwaters when an officer advised me to. He said, “Your military record is going to 
vaporize as soon as you are gone.” So my eyes were damaged — flash bums to the retinas and 
all. This is established medically — it was as if I’d stared at an arc welder’s torch for about 10 
minutes, which is unadvisable. Everything was very bizarre at that point. 




228 






This explosion of light was very silent, and where the explosion of light happened, there 
appeared a structured, solid object, rather large — probably 30 feet at the base, to a pyramid-type 
shape. It was very rough — it would distort if you looked at it, with a rainbow-like effect. And 
yet, through peripheral vision, you could get a clear fix. I will tell you, there is real evidence for 
this thing — where it sat — to this day. This one won’t let anyone down — this case — believe 
me! 


This thing was there, on the ground — and it was filmed, and it was photographed. 


There were some British bobbies present on Charles Halt’s tape. You hear the Suffolk 
Constabulary pull up in the forest, with their British police vehicle, because their siren was on for 
a bit. These police are unattainable — they won’t talk to anyone. They had a camera, and one 
was taken off of the British police. Already, an international incident was brewing here. 


Our Wing Commander, Gordon Williams — who was at a party, I believe, that night — 
arrived on-site with other senior people. There were British military present. They could have 
been at the party. And, I will say, they seemed to know how to deal with an event like this. 


I have no recollection of any sound emitting from this object. It was almost like a mirage, 
and yet, I know it was solid because it left traces and evidence and all, but it was so beyond 
anything I have ever seen, and it [was] right in front of us. I was only 30 feet away from it at one 
point — too close. 


There was a life form in association with it — so I can just cut to the chase: I remember 
thinking, what are these children doing here? And the mind starts scrambling. There was a 
bright light, and there was movement. These things had an upper body, I clearly saw, and when I 
saw an arm move — my, you know — you just, you are in another place at that point. And, these 
senior people were very close to that [phenomenon]. 


What I saw was on the right side of this bizarre machine: this bright light moved out, and it 
was bluish-gold and about a foot off the ground. It split — it was only about four feet in height 
from the ground up, but it split away — and three individual, oblong cocoons of light with these 
three individual people in [them], were there. 


SG: But they looked like humans? 


LW : They were humanoid. Y eah. 


SG: Do you know the height of them? 


LW : Y eah, they would have been about, in height, four feet. I mean, you think of children. 
The light diminished, and that’s when you could see what was in it. They were hairless, but there 
was clothing. There was an apparatus attached — I can’t describe — a dark thing. I could not 
see the lower extremities because of the light — these were not walking on the ground — these 
things. And, I wish I never saw this, but there was a white membrane around what are large eyes 
— and the white membrane was moving, adapting. It was like your eyes adjusting to light. 


The Commander was there — and this is where I swear there’s got to be a protocol, in the 
event of something like this. He moved forward, and at that point we were called out of the area 
by rank. In fact, a lot of lower-ranking people were involved in this, and [were] sent back to the 
vehicles. On our way back, there was a lot of phenomena in the forest. These light beings, or 
whatever, were there; and there were other craft around, above the trees, almost as if they were 




229 






guarding this thing and backing it up. I will tell you that Airman Burroughs was in the parking 
area where all the vehicles were. They would not let him out to the sites. 


Charles Halt was pursuing other light phenomena and had beams fired down to the ground 
right in front of him — literally — pencil-sized beams from these crescent-like objects. Col. Halt 
was making a tape recording as it all happened — four hours of audio; you’ve got 18 minutes of 
dynamite! 


My event was happening about a half a mile away. In fact, on that tape, you hear the 
beginning of my event. I will clarify this: I was on the record long before the whole tape became 
public, and I was the one that made the whole tape go public. I turned it over to CNN — and I’ve 
never taken a penny for anything I’ve done with this, ever. I never have. 


As we left, Airman Burroughs told me another object appeared — right in the midst of a lot 
of security personnel at the parking area where all the trucks [were]. It appeared right in the 
midst of them. Aiiman Burroughs grabbed this object, and it moved over the ground — ten 
meters — with him holding onto it! It’s an absolute fact: he physically touched it! He moved 
with this thing on it. It took off. It got away from John. . .Another beam of light came down. 
There was one guy, a part of the security personnel, in a pick-up truck. This thing was following 
him — one of these beings and the light — literally following him. He jumped into the pick-up 
truck, slammed the door, and it passed through the glass right in front of him, and he freaked and 
kicked the windscreen right out of the truck! This thing went out the other window. I know this 
person — this was happening in front of many people too! It went out the other window, which 
was rolled-up because it’s December. As he turned away from the vehicle, a blue beam of light 
came down from above the trees, and this thing got on it and ran right up into something that was 
dark and looked like a pinecone with white pins of light on it. It was dark against the night sky, 
and was watching over this event. Another Officer has said that he felt that these objects had 
been there looking for something. They were conducting grid searches the night before. There 
were three nights of activity. 


They were there for a reason, and it was kind of like, okay, we are here for a purpose; you 
guys are bothering us, so we are going to show you what you need to know — but we are going 
to accomplish what we need to do. 


I will tell you that [Col.] Charles Halt said to me later, “Were you aware that on that night, 
there were three massive triangular objects over the base, over the forest, and over the 
Woodbridge base the whole time?” And there was missing time with so many personnel over this 
period — it was amazing. 


Afterwards, I noticed I had a shock of gray hair that did fall out — literally, a shock of gray 
hair on the right side. My eyes were watering profusely. I had a metallic taste in my mouth, and 
I was sweating profusely, and had cold chills. 


I decided: I’m going to go call my mother, but we had secured phones on the base, obviously. 
Being rather young and naive, I didn’t pay attention to the COMSEC rules: communication 
security. We had a phone where I knew they’d always listened in on your calls, so I went to a 
public phone box (when they used to have them here on the base) and reversed the charges to my 
Mom. I said. Mom, you won’t believe this. I said, last night a UFO landed on the base, and we 
saw everything, and you wouldn’t believe it! And, I’m just thinking, she’s not responding: 
Mom? Mom? She’s gone. I looked at Greg [a friend with me] and I go, oh my God, I got cut- 
off! I called the operator, and I said, listen, can you reconnect me? She goes, “Are you calling 




230 






from the base?” I go, yeah. She goes, “I’m sorry, you were cut off from the base,” and then she 
hung up on me. I looked at Greg, and said, man, I think I’m in trouble. So, we ran back to my 
dorm. 


[Before I called my mother] we were called to the office. Malcolm Zickler, a Major, was the 
Chief of Security Police, and his underling Major Carl Drury — all were involved in one aspect 
or another with these events. There was a Jaguar outside the office, and there was another 
expensive car — I don’t remember what it was now. I thought, oh, here we go — the debriefing. 
Well, first of all, there were all the lower-ranking guys. There were no people above sergeant in 
my group. We were debriefed in a compartmentalized way, which I understand now, but then I 
didn’t. And, I said, oh my God, they are going to tell us to shut-up; I know it! I’ll name names. 
There were people in plain clothes going in and out of the security police law enforcement desk, 
and that was unusual. And, I’m like, oh boy! 


They said, “Did any of you retrieve or remove anything from the forest while you were in 
there? Anything — a rock, twig, anything?” They kept asking us over and over. And, they said, 
“If you have, and are not going to tell us now, you are subject to the UCMJ,” all these rules: 
Article XV, beyond that, JL-1 1, everything. We were young; we were all new — we were like, 
oh my God, we haven’t even started here, and we are in trouble. We were gone over with a 
Geiger counter, and there was one return on one of the guys, and something was taken out of his 
pocket. This guy was removed very quickly, and I will swear on my life — I never saw him 
again! He was removed. This happened to a lot of people. It led to a suicide that the Air Force is 
responsible for — this is a real person with a real name. That base, by the way, after that, 
eventually had the highest rate of suicide in NATO — this is an established fact. One of the 
Captains involved was found hanging in his back garden from a tree — married, with children — 
everything. All these people started to shoot and kill themselves. I’ve lived it — and I’m amazed 
I got out of there alive. 


So, we were brought into the office. There were rows of seats, a very small law enforcement 
desk. The law enforcement operators that day were kept out of the office. Everything was 
different on that base now. We were brought in and there were sheets on top of the law 
enforcement desk. There were about 10 of us, and there were one, two, three, four, five, six, 
seven stacks of documents — pre-typed. One was a pre-typed statement, all generic, of what we 
saw — which was not what we saw. It said we were off-duty and saw only u nk nown lights 
flipping amongst the trees. I clearly remember that. I said, what if we don’t sign this, Major 
Zickler? And, he [said], “You have no choice.” And he [said], “I have no choice but to ask you 
to do this.” I kept seeing these other personnel in his office, because we were heading there next. 
He [told us to] sign — I think there were four — documents. One was the UCMJ secrecy thing 
— I forget, JANAP- 1 -something — and that clearly said, JANAP. But, there were other things 
that we couldn’t read. They said, “You’ll be able to read them later; put your signature on; social 
security number.” Then we were filed into his office. There was a movie screen set-up. There 
were two rows of chairs, metal chairs, folded out. Major Zickler left, and there were two 
gentlemen in civilian clothes — big people, very business-looking: American. They had a plastic 
ID with a photo and it said Armed Forces Security Services. I don’t know if that’s Air Force — 
we have been told that is a field arm of the National Security Agency. They were intimidating 
people. 


[See the testimony of Merle Shane McDow and others regarding this pattern of intimidating 
debriefing protocols. SG] 


They didn’t smile or anything. We were in uniform — they asked us specifically to wear the 
uniforms we were wearing in the field. I think that was for the Geiger counter thing. 




231 






So we sat down, and a Naval Commander from the U.S. Navy ONI [Office of Naval 
Intelligence] in London, named Commander Richardson, was there. He had the reins. He was in 
uniform and was very affable with us. 


Basically, it went like this: I am sitting next to a friend of mine from Alabama, who we called 
Alabama. Alabama was religious — at this point, he was so unwrapped.. .He had a handheld 
Bible and was reading it. He was gone. And being so young, at 19, the human condition isn’t 
apparent to a lot of people — people’s pain and trauma — but I was watching this guy I knew 
melting down — next to me. He is one guy that didn’t make it — and he is a name, and he had a 
family, and everything. They didn’t care about that. 


But what Commander Richardson did say is that — we were all numb, but this is very clear 


— in a nutshell, “You airmen have been exposed to something that we have known about for 
longer than any one of you in this room are aware of.” And it was all matter-of-fact. He said, 
“There is a phenomenon that has been coming here for many, many years. Some of it comes and 
goes; some of it is a permanent presence.” They didn’t say a phenomenon, they said various 
civilizations — advanced civilizations. And, there was a lot of talk about the reasons for secrecy 


— national security. He said, “You’re best to go on with your lives.” One of the guys in the room 
said, “What if we say something?” And he goes, “Know this now — your mail and phones will 
be monitored for as long as you are in the military.” He said, “The best way to go about it is not 
discussing this with anyone, even each other, from this point on. Go about your lives; forget 
about all this. Move on with your lives, with the knowing that you have seen something that few 
people will ever get to see.” Every other word was loyalty to national security, our oath, serving 
the country — it was brainwashing, because all-of-a-sudden it was repetitive lines, and there was 
a drone to his voice. 


Then they showed a film. They said, “We are going to show you a film that might help you 
best put into perspective what you gentlemen have witnessed, and help you, maybe, put it to bed a 
little bit for yourselves.” We were also told, though, if any of us [had] any unusual dreams, 
there’s a number we were to call, daily, for the next month. If anyone was trying to pry 
information out of us we were to let [the authorities] know. They said that there would be a 
possibility of Soviet infiltration of the area — to try to get information from us. At that time, it 
was the Cold War, and they said [to] be aware of anything; we were to report that immediately. 


They ran the film — I mean, it was just a film on a reel — it was not narrated; he did not 
narrate it. It began with gun camera footage [from] what I can only assume [was] maybe the 
1940s. It showed some propeller-driven aircraft in broad daylight. It looked like the Florida 
Keys, and a fleet of silver discs [went] under the aircraft. That was one of the first frames. [The] 
clip [changed]. This thing went all the way up to the space program. The best clip on it showed 
the berets of the 5 th Special Forces in Vietnam on a red clay hill [with] low scrub brush and a guy 
with a camera... I don’t even know the year, but it was in color. He turns the camera and this 
giant, green, delta-shaped thing rises out of the brush, very slowly and deliberately, below where 
they are, up to face level, camera level, and then continues — but, shrubbery and brush is falling 
off this massive thing, and a flock of big pelicans [or other] birds goes right under it — I’ll never 
forget that in my life! I remember that better than the incident in the field. 


The space program: I swear to God, this film showed structures on the moon — these box 
kind of things — that looked sand-colored. 


[See the important corroborating testimony of these structures by Karl Wolf. SG] 




232 






It showed that lunar car moving around. I remember those clearly, because I remember being 
a child when all that was happening. Then — at a distance — the astronauts pointing at these 
box-looking things, and structured objects moving off the surface of the moon — filmed by 
Apollo missions. 


SG: What did the structures on the moon look like? What shape were they? 


LW: The structures looked like a continuation of the color of the moon, but there was 
structure to it. Like, huge box-kinds of things — very square and angular structures without 
windows. But they were artificial, clearly, and, they were being filmed; and then, there were 
lights and weird things on top of hills. 


SG: Are they in good condition or old? 


LW: Oh, no — they looked pristine. 


SG: And were the UFOs moving? 


LW: Very clearly, in different scenes. A lot of it was with the lunar car — that mission. 
Some of it was the astronauts on space walks, and something dark coming right up near them, 
with points of red light. 1 remember that. All of this was very quick. They never showed it 
again. The Apollo mission is the era where it ended. 


So, after this meeting, and calling my mother and getting cut-off, I knew I was in trouble. I 
was called to the communications section of Bentwaters. I knew what was coming. A Staff 
Sergeant was there, and the Captain debriefed me. I was asked questions. There was a reel-to- 
reel tape machine present in the debriefing, and they kept asking me, “Have you given sensitive 
information out over land lines?” Over, and over. And, I said, no, no. And they said, “Do you 
want to go with that?” And I said, yes. I was lying through my teeth. And they played the tape 
— here’s me, ‘Hi Mom, you’ll never believe...’ They said, “Warren, you have to understand, 
every phone on this base is monitored all the time anyway.” I was told that I was not given an 
Article XV because that is traceable. I would be fined $300.00, and if I caused any more trouble, 
I’d lose my stripes. There is a paper trail on that fine, and no explanation. Later, I was threatened 
with the IRS and everything. Madness. They are crazy. The machine is crazy. 


Later, we were eating, and Sergeant Penniston was sitting right there. Someone asked me, 
“What the hell happened to us last night?” And, Sergeant Penniston, who was senior, he goes, 
“Shut the fuck up, Warren, shut the luck up.” Just like that. I was like this: oh my God, and I 
threw my tray down and just walked out. It was all downhill from there, my friend. 


Later that night, Sergeant Bustinza, myself — and I swear it happened to others — received a 
phone call to meet a vehicle in the parking lot. Sergeant Bustinza and I were to meet this vehicle 
at 5:00 p.m. that afternoon. It was dark at that point in England. We both walked up. I said, hi, 
Busty, how you doing? He goes, “All right.” And, we both walked toward this vehicle. The 
door was open. There was a guy sitting there. In reality, what happened is, two people came up 
behind each of us — and I do remember someone heading towards him — and I heard the sound 
of what sounded like an aerosol, and I went black. My conscious memory for years was that the 
interior lights in the car were too bright, and I just blacked out. In reality, we were hit with an 
aerosol of some sort. My nose ran profusely, and my chest got tight. I, obviously, was not 
getting into the car properly, so I was beaten — literally hit in the ribs and pushed. I was 
resisting, and I know Sergeant Bustinza was doing the same thing. 




233 






I had identified myself as a problem. It turns out, years later, that he had made some phone 
calls too. We were taken somewhere on the Bentwaters flight line. I knew this by the sound of 
where we went. When I was removed from that car, I cut my face, because I fell out of it — 
obviously, being immobile — and hit a patch of concrete and ice, and was carried, literally — 
bodily, face down. I remember my nose running so profusely, and I couldn’t wipe it or anything. 
I didn’t know if it was bleeding or what. I know we descended. I will tell you there is an 
underground facility on that base that is — to this day — there. 


I have more memories of it being a very clinical situation. We do know, at this time, a lot of 
outside people were on the base. There were teams in the forest. Aircraft came into Woodbridge, 
and even the commanders of the base had no access to get near it, or ask why they were there. 
Teams in white coveralls were going throughout the forest. There were Intelligence people on the 
base that were never there before. These are all things that can be established as fact, from many 
other people. 


[See the testimony of Sergeant Clifford Stone who was involved with this external team 
investigating this event. SGJ 


Anyway, I have 20 minutes of recall, and I’m gone for a day — and, it’s established with 
other people. People said I was on emergency leave, or on leave, or off the base — but I was just 
under the base — and there were other personnel down there. 


There was a lot of high tech machinery, huge vaulted, glass-like ceilings, panels of glass 
walls — like a subway wall — old, but huge glass panels. We were brought to one area, and I 
have a conscious memory, whether it is real or not, of looking into a very dark void, and having 
someone to this side of me explaining that there were tunnels from the base to the North Sea. 


My next conscious memory is just broad daylight — walking out into the sunshine from the 
base photographic lab. A lot of younger guys and I went through this. I do remember being on a 
table and seeing Air Force senior people, and some other unidentified people, talking down to me. 
I know I was looking up at them with bright lights. I had marks, by the way, from an IV, or 
something, when I came out of there. I had the bruise and I had a bandage. I will admit that. 
That’s for real. I had it. I’m terrified to know or think of what might have happened, so I’ve only 
pursued these memories a little bit. 


I wrote my Mother a letter, and I wrote the letter a week and a half before Charles Halt 
authored the actual Halt memo, which was gained by the Freedom of Information Act. It is a 
document that reads like science fiction on Air Force letterhead. It’s a minimizing of the event — 
I believe, intentional — but it reads like science fiction. It was released in 1983 through Citizens 
Against UFO Secrecy, based on information I supplied them, after numerous denials that it 
existed from the Air Force itself. 


Pod casts were made of the indentations where the object landed on the first night. Charles 
Halt still has possession of one of them, and does show people this, and would show it to any 
congressional body, I think. Most of them ended up missing. Soil analysis was done on the 
landing site, but it was all swept away. Years later, from 1988 to 1990, we did core samples, soil 
analysis, which was analyzed by Springbom Environmental Labs in Massachusetts by accredited 
scientists. We have the published findings in the book Left at East Gate. An absolute 
[phenomenon] took place only in that spot — to a level of three feet down. Plants do not grow in 
this one spot — no matter what crop — we’ve talked to the fanners — for 20 years. However, 




234 






the soil is darker. It does not absorb water. It is almost crystalline, mixed with a very dry dirt, 
like freeze-dried coffee. 


[See the testimony with Roberto Pinotti and the results from landing sites in Italy and France, 
which show similar changes. SG] 


It was, in a theoretical way, heating the soil to a degree in an industrial microwave oven — to 
a super high heat — and then dropping it, instantly, into a sub-zero freeze — in almost a conical 
direction — down. 


RAF Watten, a Royal Air Force Base, had radar returns of these objects on all nights in 
question. RAF Watten, on the third night and the first night, picked up an object descending into 
the forest. The next day, the U.S. Air Force went to RAF Watten, talked to the air traffic 
controllers, [and] told them that an alien spacecraft landed in Rendlesham Forest. There was 
contact with the base commander, and they were borrowing the radar tapes, but the tapes were 
never returned. These are all real people that are apparently talking now. I also know that on one 
of the nights in question, a small object appeared near the perimeter of RAF Watten, not far from 
our base. Of course, they had higher security because of the IRA threat at that time. A Royal Air 
Force police dog handler (K-9 team) was doing a perimeter patrol, and the dogs went flat down 
on the ground. These people are talking now. Then they saw these two beings near the fence line 
— prodding it — next to a triangular object. They were prodding the fence with these light-like 
objects. When they saw the RAF dog handlers, they fled toward this machine that took off and 
headed off toward our base. 


When people ask about the film and photographs, there is confirmation — this isn’t a story I 
came up with. Captain Mike Verrano verifies on the Cable News Network program, UFO: the 
Bentwaters Incident, from 1985, that indeed he drove the wing commander Gordon Williams, the 
next morning, to an awaiting jet. The pilot opened the canopy, and he said, “What do you have in 
that satchel?” And he said, “I have actual film. We have actual film and photographs of the 
UFO.” So, Gordon Williams personally handed this material, in a satchel, to the pilot, Mike 
Verrano [said]. I, by the way, asked where the film was going, and I was told Germany. That 
was Air Force command at that time. From there, we know that there was a paper trail, and that it 
was eventually sent back to Washington. 


I was an honorably discharged security policeman. I have an honorable discharge. I’ve heard 
a lot of nasty things said about me, but I have my records. The only reason I have my records is 
because I was advised to steal some of them — by an Air Force Colonel — because he said they 
would vaporize you. He said, “They are going to fireproof you.” 


[See the testimony of Brigadier General Stephen Lovekin regarding his information about 
being “erased. ’’ SG] 


I was looked at almost like a Frank Serpico kind of guy. I was not a team player, because I 
was talking to everyone. 


Unfortunately, my friend Alabama went AWOL trying to get back home. At O’Hare Airport, 
he was captured by the FBI and returned to duty immediately. All he wanted to do was go home, 
but he was put back on flight duty. I was riding with the senior master sergeant on vehicle patrol, 
just totally depressed with everything, when Alabama called in — this is a real person — and said 
he was going to kill himself if he couldn’t go home. And, this guy turned the pick-up truck quick, 
and was heading toward the post. He said, “You stay on the Goddamn radio...” I saw all the units 




235 






across the flight line responding and everything. I never hear Mr. Halt comment on this at all, 
and that’s why he won’t stand with me in a place — because 1 bring up things that maybe they 
feel bad about. As he says, the Air Force [was] on the sidelines for it all. Anyway, Alabama had 
a short Ml 6, and he put it in his mouth and took the top of his head off. This was the first time I 
ever saw death — violent death — at 19. We were as different as night and day, me and this kid. 
You know — he was the south; I was the north. He was very religious. I respect that, but we had 
nothing in common. He was a nice guy. And, they did not do anything to help us. . . 


I have had unbelievable phone problems for years — the typical things — [and] my mail is 
still intercepted. In this country [the UK], it was, for years, opened and resealed in plastic, with a 
letter of apology. Many of our packages don’t get where they are going. 


[I can verify this, as we have had great difficulty getting follow-up materials from Mr. 
Warren out of the UK. SGJ 


Later, my passport was coming up for renewal, and I sent it in. It would have expired by the 
time I was going on a trip. But soon after sending it in for a new one, I got a letter back saying, 
“Mr. Warren, your passport was altered or mutilated and you need to reapply for another one.” I 
said, oh my God, what the hell was that? So, I just, I said, oh fine, [and] filled it out. Next 
response: “Mr. Warren, you must reestablish U.S. citizenship.” I’m like, what? I’m calling all 
these people. Finally, in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, at the National Passport Center, this 
woman said, “I can’t tell you what’s happening here.” After a while, I said, listen. I’m writing a 
book called Left at East Gate, and she goes, “The Bentwaters thing...” She said, “Call me at this 
number” — it was her home number in Lebanon, New Hampshire. I called her, and she said to 
me, “I have the official printout: ‘This individual’s passport is being revoked under some 
classification, due to his speaking of sensitive defense issues at a public forum on foreign soil,’ 
and then some coding, DOD coding, under it.” I have it all, and it is just bizarre. 


Our agent at that time, Perry Knowlton in New York City, was friends with Ramsey Clark, 
the former U.S. Attorney General. He set up a meeting with us, and I met with Mr. Clark in 
person. He said to me, “I’m going to make some phone calls for you,” but he says, “I’m going to 
tell you this — after knowing everything — they say it was because you talked about nuclear 
weapons, that’s all.” Mr. Clark said, “People in England suspected there were nukes there all the 
time. I will tell you this: your passport was suspended because of the other things you’ve talked 
about,” and he wouldn’t elaborate any more. He made two phone calls, and the Department of 
State, with apologies, said it was an error. 


So, we’ve tried to do our best. I’d be willing to speak and swear to this in front of any 
congressional body. I have great respect for my country, and I think it is the people’s right to 
know. 


[We have identified the names of numerous witnesses who should testify before Congress 
regarding these landing events. This case alone establishes the reality of the UFO and 
extraterrestrial issue. There are also corroborating documents, tapes, and other evidence, such 
as the landing site effects and radiation measurements. SGJ 




236 






■ * 




.■•a 


iu m 
Mmwi *■“ 




OCPA^FmENI OPTHfeAlB FOKte 


lHAIKi*l*KUi>V IIM ml iw .*H 


APQ fiiW - •••',■ 




f'fc a*- 5 






, u t ) ft n . Unexplained Lights 








r*i- 


?<!: 




I 




RAF/C C*. 


1. Early In the morninn of 27 Dec 80 . (approximately 03001), two USAF 
security police patrolmen saw unusual Lights outside the back gate at 
RAF Woodbridge. Thinking an aircraft might have crashed or been tore id 
down, they called for permission to go outside the gate to invest igata. 


The on-duty flight chief responded and allowed three patrolmen to pro-^ 
ceect on foot. Th q individuals reported seeing a strange glowing oojc^* 
in the forest. The object was described as being metalic in appearance 
and triangular in shape, approx imate I y two to three meters across the 
base and approximately two meters high. It Illuminated the entire ror.st 
with' a white light. The object Itself had a pulsing red light on top and 
a b?nk(s) of blue lights underneath. The object was hovering or on legs. 


As the patrolmen approached the object, it maneuvered through the trees 
and disappeared. At this time the animals on a nearby farm went Into a 
frenzy. The object was briefly sighted approximately an hour later near 
the back gate. 


• •• ' 7.-‘ C • - • > . m .3. ■ ■ J fc . ' 


2. The next day, three depressions 1 1/2" deep and 7" in diameter were 
found where the object had been sighted on the ground. The following 
night (29 Dec 80) the area was checked for radiation. Beta/gamma readings 
of 0.1 milliroentgens were recorded with peak readings In the three ce- 
pressions and near the center of the triangle formed bv the depressions. 


A nearby tree had moderate (.05-. 07) readings on the side of the tree 
toward the depressions. 


3. Later in the night a red sun-like light was seen through tbe trees. 


It moved about and pulsed. At one point it appeared ta throw off gioyi.g 
particles and then broke into five separate white objects and then dis- 
appeared. lamed iately thereafter, three star-1 ike objects were noticed 
in the sky, two objects to the north and one to tha. “ [ ’ w " 


were about 10° off the. horizon. The objects moved rapidly In shaip tnguiar 
movements and displayed red, green and blue lights. The objects to ue 
north appeared to be elliptical through aft 8-12. power fens, mey rnca . 
turned to full circles. The objects to the north remained in the Skj tor 
an hour. or more. The object to the south was visible for two or three- ■' . 
hours and beamed duwn a stream of light from time to time. Numerous indivi- 
duals. Including the undersigned, witnessed the activities in paragr. ?ns; 


2 and 3. £'•» 






rc 




Oepuly Base Conwander 




Col , USAF 




: pbOum** 






237 






Testimony of Captain Lori Rehfeldt 


October 2000 




Lori Rehfeldt was stationed at the 81 st Security Police Squadron at RAF Bentwaters 
in England during the UFO events that occurred in December 1980. She and a 
colleague were on duty late that night, when they saw in the distance an object they 
thought was a plane landing on the runway — coming in from the direction of the 
North Sea. They also saw it silently explode, split into three parts, and speed across 
the runway; then it went straight up and disappeared. 


... We saw this aircraft... The rate of speed that it was moving when it went across was 
tremendous. It was moving in like a regular aircraft, then when it stopped, it did this movement 
and split into three. And when sped across the runway going west, it was just going at a 
phenomenal speed. The only other thing that really caught our attention was that it didn’t make 
any noise. There was no sound to it at all. We just didn’t know what it was. . . 


When it stopped, that’s when it made these fast movements: up, down, left, right - the 
movement was very geometric. I mean, it was not a normal movement. That probably threw us 
more than anything because it was just so, unusual. It was a lot faster than a jet plane. . . 


He happened to be an electrical engineer for the Air Force. He said, you do know they found 
something out there? He said, well, we’ve been working with the plastic, with the material that 
we got from back then. And he said, back then it was pretty raw, but now we’ve been able to use 
it and to refine it. And they’ve been able to use it and it can take so many degrees of heat and 
temperature. He mentioned it was a gray material. But he was validating that there was 
something out there. And he said this material was not indigenous to here. . . 


Testimony of Sergeant Clifford Stone, United States Army 


September 2000 


Sergeant Stone tells an amazing story about the history of UFO’s and extraterrestrials 
dating back to the early 40 ’s and probably before. General Douglas MacArthur 
organized a group called the Interplanetary Phenomena Research Unit back in 1 943 to 
study this issue and it continues to this day. Their purpose is to recover objects of 
u nk nown origin particularly those that are of non-Earthly origin. They obtain field 
intelligence information and pass it on to those who are the “keepers of this 
information.” Stone says that even Project Bluebook had an elite investigation unit, 
which was outside of Bluebook. This unit was thought to be working in conjunction 
with Bluebook but in fact was not. Stone has seen living and dead extraterrestrials in 
his official duties on an army team that retrieved crashed ET crafts. He thinks that the 
extraterrestrials will not permit us to explore the depths of outer space until we’ve 
learned to grow spiritually and that they will make themselves known soon if we don’t 
first acknowledge their presence. 




On February 26 th , 1942, commonly called the Battle of Los Angeles, we find that there are 
some 15 to 20 unidentified craft flying over Los Angeles. We immediately responded by trying 
to shoot these objects down. The 37 th Coastal Artillery Group expended 1,430 rounds. We 
immediately set out to try to find out if there was some hidden base belonging to the Axis from 
where these planes could come, some commercial airport that they could have had these aircraft 
housed. None of this bore out. Every search effort we made turned out to be fruitless. 




238 






At the same time in the Pacific they were experiencing the same phenomena, the so-called 
Foo Fighters. General MacArthur directed his intelligence people to find out what was going on. 
I have reason to believe that in 1943 MacArthur found out that in fact we had things not of this 
Earth and visitors from some other planet visiting our planet that was actually observing that 
world event we call the Second World War. One of the problems that he had was that, should 
this be the case, and should they prove to be hostile, we knew very little about them and we had 
very little means to defend ourselves. 


MacArthur organized what was called the Interplanetary Phenomena Research Unit. 


[See the testimony of Buck Sergeant Leonard Pretko regarding MacArthur ’s involvement in 
the ET issue and his knowledge of the retrieved spacecraft and ET’s from the New Mexico Crash. 
SG] 


It would later be taken over by General Marshall. And it continued all the way through to 
present day. Names have been changed and records still haven’t surfaced. The Army tries to 
state that it was not an official organization effort to try to investigate UFO’s. But it was 
organized by a General, it bore a fruit, it came to conclusions that were not popular, i.e., 
interplanetary spacecraft. And they continued to do exactly what they do today and that is to be 
part of a multi-intelligence operation in the recovery of objects of unknown origin particularly 
those that are of non-Earthly origin. Their purpose is to assess that information, get raw field 
intelligence data, and process that data into some type of useful intelligence product to 
disseminate to the field - to those people who have a need to know and those people that are, shall 
we say, the keepers of that information. 


One of MacArthur’ s Air Force generals, an Army Air Corps General at the time, came back 
to MacArthur and told MacArthur “what we have is something not of this Earth”. I would 
suggest that by this time even the Germans had uncovered evidence that we were being visited 
and had some type of physical evidence. MacArthur definitely had physical evidence. From the 
documentation I saw [while working this issue in the Army], I was not able to ascertain exactly 
what that physical evidence consisted of but it was there. 


The one thing I find quite unique is that the Germans may have tried to back-engineer one of 
these objects. We definitely tried to back-engineer it. But we find that your technology has to be 
on par with the acquired technology in order to back-engineer it. . . 


In the 1950’s, the United States Air Force had an elite unit to investigate UFO’s outside of 
Bluebook. Even though Bluebook felt that this unit was working with them, they were not. This 
unit was initially organized as a 4602 nd Air Intelligence Service Squadron. Among its peacetime 
missions was operation Blue Fly. Operation Blue Fly was to recover objects of u nk nown origin 
that fell to Earth. It is very important that you remember these were specifically objects that fell 
to Earth- because we didn’t have any spacecraft up there at this time. As a result of this, they had 
monitors right there at Wright Patterson that when UFO reports came in they were looked at very 
closely to see if there was any possible necessity of sending out teams to recover any of this fallen 
debris. 


The Air Force states they never used them. I’m telling you I know they did. But the intent of 
the Operation Blue Fly peacetime project was to go out and recover objects of u nk nown origin 
that impacted with the Earth. Later it would be expanded in 1957 to cover all objects of u nk nown 
origin meaning spacecraft too. And it would become part of what they would call in the October 
of 1957 timeframe, Project Moon Dust. 




239 






Project Moon Dust is the overall field exploitation to recover only two items: First, objects of 
non-U. S. origin that survives re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere and impacts with the Earth and 
objects. Naturally, we would be interested in those items from a technical, scientific intelligence 
basis to determine, or try to ascertain the technical capabilities of any potential enemy since our 
known enemy of the U.S., the USSR at that time that was launching space vehicles into space. 


The other area of interest was objects of unknown origin. Now we find that there were quite 
a few objects of unknown origin that did not correlate with any known space launches, impact 
times, or any known space debris falling back to Earth. In short, under [Project] Moon Dust and 
under Blue Fly, we have recovered alien debris not of this Earth. 


The degree of classification that we have now has changed over the years. Back during the 
time of the Second World War all the way up to, say 1969, you may have had as many as 11 
classifications. Now there are three: confidential, secret and top secret. However, if you have 
information that is highly sensitive that requires protection above and beyond the norm of what is 
provided for those classifications, that’s when you have the Special Access Programs. You do 
not get that type of information out into public domain unless it is officially sanctioned. 


During the discussion of UFO’s, the question ultimately is going to come up can any 
government keep secrets let alone the U.S. Government? And the answer to that is unequivocally 
yes. But one of the greatest weapons the intelligence community has at their disposal is a 
predisposition by the American people, the American politicians, and the debunkers- people who 
wish to try to debunk UFO information. They immediately come out and say oh we can’t keep 
secrets, we can’t keep secrets. Well, the truth is, yes we can. 


The National Recognizance Office remained secret for many, many years. The mere 
existence of the NSA remained secret. The development of the atomic weapon remained secret 
until once you exploded one you eventually had to tell some people what was going on. And we 
are conditioned by our own paradigms not to accept the possibility or probability of a highly 
advanced intelligent civilization coming here to visit us. You have evidence in the form of highly 
credible reports of objects being seen, of the entities inside these objects being seen. Yet, we look 
for a prosaic explanation and we throw out the bits and pieces of the evidence that doesn’t meet 
our paradigm. So it is a self-keeping secret. You can conceal it in plain sight. It is political 
suicide to go and start hitting up intelligence agencies to get this information released. So most of 
your members of Congress, and I know I’ve worked with a lot of them along that line, will balk 
and try not to do it. I can name you three members of Congress that were point bla nk asked to 
have a congressional inquiry on what happened here at Roswell. 


One of the most ridiculous statements that I got was that a person would have to be a 
chairperson to do that. So I asked a senator from Mississippi if he’d do it and without any 
hesitation, he said no. I said, would you give me that in writing? I got that in writing but I’m 
hesitant to release it. I will show it to you but I’m hesitant to release it simply because I made a 
promise not to. 


We have got to get the documentation as it exists in the Government files. We have got to 
get it released before it ultimately is destroyed. A good example is the Blue Fly and Moon Dust 
files. I had classified documents the Air Force acknowledged. When I got members of Congress 
to help me open up more files they were immediately destroyed and I can prove this. 


Somewhere along the line they may see that material and realize there is some very highly 
sensitive information that would have a damning effect upon the national security of United 




240 






States should it become compromised. It needs to be further protected to insure that there is only 
a limited access to that information to a small number of people. So small you can put them on a 
list of paper, on a piece of paper, and list them by name. Thus you have the Special Access 
Programs. The controls that were supposed to be put on the Special Access Programs are not 
there. When Congress did their review of the way we protect documents and the way we go 
ahead and implement our secrecy programs they found that you had Special Access Programs 
within Special Access Programs — that it was essentially impossible to keep control of them all 
by Congress. And I’m telling you right now; it is essentially impossible to keep control of them 
all. ' 




When it comes to UFO’s the same criteria applies. Therefore, only a small nucleus within the 
intelligence community numbering less than a hundred — no, I’d suggest less than 50 — control 
all that information. It is not subject to congressional review or oversight at all. So Congress 
needs to go ahead and ask the hard questions and convene a hearing. 


There would be quite a few missions to describe but simply put, yes, I was involved in those 
types of operations to retrieve crashed ET objects. A lot of people think that you are just in your 
unit waiting in the rafters, just waiting for the next UFO crash, a landing where there is going to 
be debris. It doesn’t work that way. You have a real life. You have a real job in the military. 
However, if you are in an area where an event takes place and you are one of these people that 
they can go ahead and call upon in your field of expertise, then you are called in. 


Now, in order to prepare me for this, very early on in my career they sent me to NBC School 
at Fort McCullen [sp], Alabama. It’s a three-week school. It’s for NBC personnel, NBC 
meaning Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical. And it would always be in the context of an NBC 
unit that I would be involved in UFO retrievals. You would go ahead and deploy as though it was 
a nuclear accident. There are procedures already established on nuclear or biological or chemical 
accidents. So you would proceed in that way. If you could get in there and do recoveries, if you 
could go in and extract the debris that are there quietly behind the scenes and no one knows, 
you’d do it. If you needed an officially sanctioned deception program to come into play, such as 
a bogus news release, you could do this also. 


For example, if you have an airplane accident we have standard procedures on how we 
handle that. Those same procedures are utilized when you do a recovery or extraction of a 
crashed ET spacecraft or debris thereof. And I have to stress debris simply because these are 
highly advanced technical machines. There were not that many crashes. They are flawed 
because they are made by an intelligence that is as mortal as you or me. Being mortal, we are 
subject to error. 


Now, we are talking about a highly intelligent civilization, not a highly incompetent 
civilization. We take steps and they take steps. But at the same time, when you go out, you make 
a recovery. And when you make that recovery, you handle it the same way you would as if you 
were out there on an airplane accident or you have a hazardous material type situation, because it 
works. It is all set up. The only problem you have is that you have people out there that are very 
quickly going to realize that this is not something of this planet. To be sure, with the Blue Fly 
recoveries [ET craft], you do what is called an on-site analysis. 


In short, you have experts out there who know what missiles are, who know what aircraft are. 
They are looking at this material. They are telling you what it isn’t. This leaves you to only one 
possible conclusion, something that did not originate on the face of this planet. That was the 
intent of the Blue Fly teams. It was very critical to do an immediate on-site analysis. Now, the 




241 






way you package the material if it is just debris is handled the same way you would if it was 
hazardous material. You took precautions. If you had a whole craft, you took very serious 
precautions because while I still state the ET’s are not hostile, you still could cause some serious 
accidents, which would result in death. I’m not going to get into how it was with the family when 
I had to leave on these operations because you get a little emotional because you think about what 
could happen. . . 


Of course, you try to conceal the material, particularly if you have a large craft and it is disc 
shaped or say, wedge shape — which is a very good shape that we get from time to time. And you 
take precautions particularly if you have to go ahead and put it on a truck to bring it in. If you 
have to put it on a truck to take it to a safe haven area, we track that truck. The truck has an 800 
number so if there is a breakdown they can secure the vehicle and stay with it. But they have a 
number they can call and immediately get assistance out there to move that vehicle to a safe 
haven area. And there are procedures outlined in this. As a matter of fact, you have a shipping 
document. And that shipping document has the number right on it to call. So you use a code 
word — I’ll give you one that we used all the time: Tabasco. 


In the case of an ET craft, you are going to get a specialized team out there that knows what 
to do should there be a biological component. One of the big concerns we had was biological due 
to contamination as a result of this being truly of alien origin. 


I am prepared to state that I have been at locations where craft of unknown origin that did not 
originate on the face of this planet were there. I am prepared to state that while I was there, we 
saw living and dead bodies of entities that were not bom on this planet. I am prepared to state 
that we had what they referred to as “interfacing” with those entities. I am prepared to state that 
they have a school to try to indoctrinate people. I never went to that school. I always refused. I 
am prepared to state that when I got out of the service in 1990, that they held me for two months 
so that I might better reconsider to stay in and not get out. I am prepared to state that I had orders 
that stated that I was supposed to get out on December 1 st of 1989, and that they revoked those 
orders. Once again, in violation of law they held me for two months pending approval of my 
retirement, which had already been approved. The purpose of that was to try to convince me to 
stay in. 


We have contact with aliens not originating from some foreign country but from some other 
solar system. And I have been a party to that. I’ve worked it. I’ve been there. And I know some 
of the things we do is really, really, really, really terrible. They are not hostile toward us. We are 
the enemy in this instance — but we are the enemy, I like to think, for the good reasons. We are 
concerned about what some other country might do. I have concluded that I am fighting against 
the clock. That I have but a short time to try to convince people that we are moving down an 
avenue where we are going to militarize space. Once we militarize space we will have a whole 
new avenue of technology open up to us. 


NASA says it is going to take another 1,400 years before we achieve what we call interstellar 
travel. I’m telling you by the end of this century we will be doing that. If we do nothing to grow 
spiritually — and this is a hard thing for me to state — but if we do nothing to grow spiritually we 
will not achieve interstellar travel. They will stop us. What’s worse they will make themselves 
known to an unsuspecting people on this planet. 


We want to acquire this technology. We want to make this technology part of our own 
technology. Within the next 25 years we are going to militarize space. As a result of militarizing 
space, we are going to acquire new technologies and we are going to evolve new technology that 




242 






is going to lead us into interstellar travel. As a direct result, we will become a threat to them 
unless we spiritually grow also. But I feel that if we do not grow spiritually we are forcing the 
situation where the entities will eventually make themselves known. And they will make 
themselves known. And no power on Earth can stop that from happening. The ET’s will do this 
in order to stop us from going out into space as a threat. If this should happen, it will happen to an 
unsuspecting world population and that can create some very serious problems. 


[See the testimony of Dr. Carol Rosin regarding Wemher Von Braun ’s concern over our 
weaponizing space. SG] 


But this doesn’t deal just with the United States. It is a truth that the entire world has to be 
informed about. And that truth is that man is not alone, that we have people from other planets, 
from other solar systems coming here. 


I believe that the intelligence community had good intentions when they classified 
information dealing with UFO’s. I believe that they asked some very serious and hard questions: 
What impact would it have if the peoples of the world knew that they were no longer alone in the 
universe, that they had intelligence that was visiting this planet? And I think that the intentions 
were good there. As intelligence agencies among nations, naturally you want to go ahead and 
acquire the technology for military application. So you want to try to keep some of that 
knowledge as confidential as possible by classifying it as high as you possibly can- keeping the 
information open to only a small handful of people thus, Special Access Programs. However, I 
believe that while it was full of good intentions in keeping this information classified, it is [now] 
hurting people. 


I do not believe that any government has the right to try to make individuals who merely see 
UFO’s look crazy. I do not believe that any government has a right knowing that the psychology 
of specific individuals may ultimately lead to a tremendous amount of mental depression, 
ultimately, leading in many, many cases to suicide or self destruction. When we see these types 
of things coming about, we have an obligation to reconsider our thoughts and positions. I would 
suggest [that] we need to break down the walls of secrecy, that we must be responsible in getting 
the truth out. We must be responsible in how we get that truth out. And we must be truthful. 


And it is not a scary story. You will learn that the ET’s have a perception of God. You find 
they have families. You find they have cultures. You find that they have likes and dislikes. You 
look for those things that are similar among us, not the differences. And that is the way you start 
on the path to truth. The problem that we have right now is that we look at them as something to 
talk about; something to marvel at and be amazed at. 


Well, back to my own story, we had just finished the training that I took to be an NBC NCO. 
And a friend of mine brought me back to Fort Lee, Virginia. He was going to Fort Meade, 
Maryland and says, come on. I’ll give you a ride to your base. And we discussed UFO’s on the 
way to Fort Lee. 


Several weeks after I got back to Fort Lee, I got a call from this person and I was going to 
visit him at Ft. Meade. When I got to Fort Meade where he was supposed to be, they said, well, 
he is going to be tied up we’ll talk to you later about his situation as soon as he gets free. This 
person says, by the way, have you ever been to the Pentagon? Well, at that time I had never been 
at the Pentagon. So they said, well, it is really a unique place. Why don’t we go ahead and give 
you the twenty-five cent tour. So we went on over. We went in. I had a little badge that was 
given to me, no picture on it. But the guy that was with me, his had a picture and he’d just tell the 




243 






guards he is authorized to come with me. And he’d always be the one to get me in. Finally we 
got to a place that has an elevator. We went down on it - 1 don’t know how far down we went. I 
can’t tell you if there is one flight under the Pentagon, two, or fifty. But we went down. When 
we get out there, there are two monorails there. I mean, there are monorails under the Pentagon. 
They look like big tubes, rather thick in the center, one on each side. So you had these little 
monorails with cars that look like a bullet, where you could seat two people in front and two 
people in back. We got on the one monorail and started to go, it seemed like maybe 20 minutes, 
but I’m guessing at that because I don’t know for sure. 


When we got out, he says, well, let me show you some interesting sites down this corridor 
here. So we are going down the corridor and it looked like there was a door at the far end of that 
corridor. As we got closer and closer to that door, my guide turned to me and stated, you know, 
things aren’t always as they seem to be. He says a lot of people don’t know about these 
underground locations underneath the Pentagon. Only a few know that the Pentagon has 
underground monorails that connect up to other locations. He says, it is just like the walls here — 
they don’t all seem like walls. And I said, what do you mean they are not walls? I said, what are 
you talking about? I thought, you know, he was trying to make a joke. At that time he says, no, 
it is like the wall behind you. I look and it looks like a wall to me. There are no seams or 
anything I can see. Then he pushes me. I try to grab myself but there is actually a door that 
opened. 


Well, when you go through the door there is like a field table there. And behind the field 
table you had this little entity. The entity was a little bigger than the 3,3 1/2 foot tall entities that 
are a lot of times reported. But there were two men on either side of the table slightly behind the 
creature. When I turned around, I looked right into the eyes of this little creature. And you 
know, it’s like you are seeing it but everything is being pulled from your mind- he was reading my 
whole life. It is hard to describe what I really felt there- your life up to that point goes by in 
seconds. And I mean you were feeling everything. 


I remember going down and grabbing a hold of my head like this and falling to the floor. The 
next thing I remember I wake up and I am back in my friend’s office [back at Fort Meade]. And 
when I’m back in Jack’s office they told me nothing happened that I had been there the whole 
day. But I knew better. 


I will go this far to state that there is an interaction between entities and certain Government 
agencies within the U.S. Government. I will not go so far to state that they are giving us 
technologies to kill ourselves. They are not along that line. Their purpose in being here is for 
scientific purposes and for humanitarian purposes. 


We have been very foolish in how we have done certain things and we have harmed 
ourselves. We now realize that we have harmed ourselves and we are trying to take corrective 
action. And that right there is the one thing that the ET’s are checking on. There is the biosphere 
that’s been damaged. They are not coming here to repair that. They are coming here to see how 
we handle it. But a government can’t be the one that shoulders all of the responsibility and 
shoulders all the knowledge and all the understanding. The whole situation is that we have to 
work in unison as a people, a united people. We must go ahead and start preparing ourselves to 
where we ultimately will take that giant step to where we are going to be visiting other planets out 
there in other solar systems. And we have to, once again, I’ll use the word, grow spiritually as a 
group of people, the people representing mankind on planet Earth. Y es there is some type - and I 
don’t know to what extent- but there is some type of dialogue that is taking place between our 
visitors of all species, because there is more than one, and the various governments- not just the 




244 






U.S. Government, but of the worlds. Primarily, these are the more developed nations of the 
world because at present space faring nations represent the greatest threat to them. 


Another early experience I had was an accidental viewing of something I was not supposed to 
see. We were in a facility and a friend and I went to a balcony area looking down over the 
briefing room. They had a Plexiglas window that separated the balcony and what was going on 
downstairs - you couldn’t hear what was being said. But we started to notice that they were 
running a film. And the film showed various types of what we would call UFO’s, today. It 
showed various types of alien creatures some that looked very much like us some that looked like 
us with marked differences. We were not aware of the fact that there were people now up there 
with us. And they said, what are you guys doing up here? And we told them, well you know we 
are just sitting up here eating our snacks because we didn’t want to go to the snack bar. They 
said, you need to come with us and you need to come with us now. So I mean they pushed us 
grabbing us by the nape, the shirt, and pushed us down the stairs. 


Once they got down the stairs, they pushed us on out the doors and into a van. The van was 
right there waiting, a panel van, where they pushed us in and shut the door. And then they drove 
us off. We don’t know where they took us to but the location where we finally got out was a one- 
frame military style building. They took us in there, put us into this room. The room had the 
military cots there. It had one table with a light. And we were sitting back trying to figure out 
why are they doing this? Why is this going on? 


On the fifth night, I got out and they drove me back to my billets. I reported in and went to 
bed because I was dead tired and all I wanted to do was get some sleep. The next morning, which 
was a Saturday morning, I am awakened by the CQ, that is, Charge of Quarters. And he says, I 
want to see you. Well, I was taken to see two men; one guy was acting like a good guy. The 
other guy went ahead and said, I told you we shouldn’t trust him. Let’s just take the so and so 
out. Let’s just end this. Let’s shoot him. And the nicer guy says, no, no, we’ll discuss this. And 
he sent the guy that was supposed to be the bad guy out- we use that technique sometimes in 
security- good cop, bad cop. The one that was supposed to be the bad guy, he went to get some 
food. 


The good guy says, listen, he says, you like working with this UFO stuff. And I’m saying, 
no, I don’t. And he says, well, you know, you have experience with it. You’ve had some 
involvement. He says, and those were not phony pictures up there. He says, would you like to 
work with it? Would you like to work with us? I said, no I wouldn’t like that at all. Eventually 
he goes ahead and says, look, you like working with, you’ll get to work with it, you’ll get to learn 
more about it, he says. He says the whole situation is that by the end of this year we are going to 
release everything we know. But here again the world is not a safe place. We have to know more 
from a technological viewpoint and a military standpoint than potential enemies of this country 
know. So I’m asking you - work with us. Well, I thought about it. And you know, I was young. 
And I thought this is something that I’ve actually been involved with all my life, that it’d be fun, 
that I could go ahead learn certain things, answers to the questions I had, actually get a better 
understanding of events in my life. 


I do believe that, one, they wanted me in the military; two, they wanted me involved in this 
program; three, there wasn’t really concern about, if at some later date, I started to talk about it. 
They were only concerned what I might have to prove: If I had some little slivers of proof, what 
impact would that have on my story. But I know they did not want me out of the military. I 
know they wanted me to stay in. I know they wanted me to go ahead and go to what they referred 




245 






to as The School. But I would never commit myself to go to what they were referring to as The 
School. 


I was told that if you go to the school it will open up a whole new world for you, a whole new 
avenue. But I had to agree to it. And 1 had to go ahead and sign specific papers to go to it. And I 
was not prepared to go to that school. I had seen people who were involved with the program that 
had gone to that school and let me just say I didn’t like their personality. I did not like the idea 
that by you going there it made you something special, it made you a prima donna, if you wish. 
That was not the way it was supposed to be. I felt that one of the greatest things you can be is a 
servant and not vice versa. 


So some of these people, I did not like their disposition. I did not like their attitudes. And I 
did not want to become like them. And one of my fears was if I went to the school it would 
change me the same way. 


Now, there are events, there are recoveries [of ET craft]. But the recoveries are few and far 
between. One of the events that took place in 1 969 was a recovery of a craft that was a wedge 
shape craft and took place in Indian Town Gap. Now, I know it was cold and I believe it to have 
been in the winter but there was no snow. We were on a field training exercise, the 96 th Civil 
Affairs Group. I was part of the 96 th Civil Affairs Company. I was the NBC Non-Commissioner 
Officer in Charge. We were notified that they had an incident involving a downed craft and we 
needed to assist in recovery. The persons that showed up knew exactly where we were going and 
we went to our staging area. From there we went to another location in Indian Town Gap. We 
didn’t have any problems about civilians or curiosity seekers or anything like this. The situation 
is, we did the recovery. I realized that what I was seeing was not of human origin. 


When we got there, there was already a team set up. Floodlights were always set up around 
the object. I was asked to get closer and closer to the object to take readings with the APD 27. 
As I did this, I realized what I was seeing was not of an Earthly origin. I’m hesitant to go into it 
too much, because I don’t want to get emotional about it. . . 


Bentwaters is another very interesting case. With Bentwaters, we went there to digest some 
of the information. As far as the physical evidence, there were photographs. There was film 
footage. There was evidence of a higher than normal background radiation. Not all that high, but 
above normal. We found that there were some abnormalities in the area we referred to as the 
impact point. We also noticed that the trees had been leveled off at the top. When we got there, 
it was late December, I want to say December 28 th was the day that we arrived there. 


[See the testimony regarding this event from Larry Warren, Nick Pope, et al. SGJ 


We gathered up the materials. We took these materials back to Findsey Air Force Base, all 
the hard evidence that we could get, all the documentation that was there. There were sightings 
that were picked up on radar. Both the British Government and the U.S. Government were aware 
of these sightings. The hard evidence that we had was taken back to Findsey Air Force Base. 
There it was digested to where there was some type of information that could be put out to brief 
Shape Headquarters [NATO]. And I don’t know who in Shape Headquarters was briefed. But I 
do know that we did have to do that. The information was then put with the special courier. I 
believe it was coming back to an air base close to the Washington, D.C. area and that the 
materials transferred on to Fort Belvoir, Virginia, headquarters at the time of the U.S. Air Forces 
Special Field Activities Group, Air Forces Field Activities Center. They then took this material, 
did whatever they did with it, and came up with the finalized intelligence product. 




246 






The reason it went to Lindsey was because the U.S. Air Forces Field Activities Center had 
detachments in the field. The closest detachment in the field to Bentwaters would have been 
Lindsey Air Force Base. They were the ones that got the material. They were the ones that were 
charged with safeguarding it until it got back to the U.S. They were asking questions, hard 
questions, critical questions. They were asking technical questions of technical people that were 
involved. I know for a fact that some of the radar operators, both British and U.S. were 
questioned. I know some of the people were out there on two different nights and they were 
questioned. 


I was also involved with the Belgian UFO events in June, July of 1989. We were assessing 
information, gathering data on the UFO over flights of Belgium. The UFOs also went all over 
Germany. We had one incident there on the border near the Soviet territory. We saw that the 
Soviets were pretty upset because this was a huge object. It was triangular shape about three 
football fields on either side of the triangle. It flew over what we call No-Man’s Zone. As it flew 
over there we all were getting jittery. 


It was. I’d say summer, about August. You could feel your hair standing up on end. It was 
more than just, you know, getting shivers because of fright or something like this. There was 
some type of physiological effect taking place. Once this incident subsided, we put fighters on 
alert. We notified them that we may have a Soviet craft coming across the gap and we were 
going to intercept it. The Soviets did the same thing. It went back over the Soviet airspace and 
they scrambled fighters to try to intercept it. It wasn’t traveling fast at all. But on this particular 
night no one fired at it. 


There were pictures taken. There was consultation with the Soviet Union. With this going 
on, everyone was taken in and briefed. People were informed that what they saw was nothing 
more than a Russian MIG 27 that had strayed across into the area far enough into the No-Man’s 
Zone to create a problem and cause some alarm. But it was no MIG 27. We knew exactly what 
we were looking at. You have flashcards which are silhouettes of the various craft of the Soviet 
Union and even our own. 


So we knew precisely what we were looking at. What we saw was a craft that was of an 
unusual origin. It was not aerodynamically sound. And when I state it was not aerodynamically 
sound, I mean it had no means of staying aloft like that without some visible means of aerial 
support like a helicopter. That wasn’t there. It was perfectly silent not making any noise roughly 
three stories high. This was one of the incidents that got me a little concerned, made me think 
about wanting to get out and come back to the family, to have some family life. We had the 
incident escalate. We had it escalate to where the Soviet Union filed an official protest through 
the Belgium Government to the U.S. Government stating that they were very concerned about the 
Belgium authorities along with several other countries letting us fly stealth aircraft on 
reconnaissance missions into the Soviet Union. We notified and discussed it with the Soviet 
Union. We briefed at least the Soviet Military Liaison Mission Groups that this had nothing to do 
with our involvement of sending stealth aircraft into their territory. 


The Soviet Union was alarmed about what was going on. They even alluded to it being our 
craft. They were reassured that it wasn’t. We reassured the Belgium authorities that it wasn’t. 
The Belgium authorities had their own UFO sightings. We have seen this on TV. What you 
don’t know about those sightings is that there was a tremendous - I don’t want to call it a cover- 
up - there was a movement to keep specific information about those sightings under wraps. There 
were some efforts to go ahead and alter the film footage of the radar screens to the point where it 




247 






showed the UFO going underground, which it did not. I think it was supposed to have gone 600 
feet into the Earth. That did not happen. It was visible. People saw it. The pilots saw it. The 
pilot’s aircraft locked on to it. But these were things that would create more questions that we 
were willing to answer. So we decided to keep this out of the press. And we were successful at 
it. 


[See the government documents related to this event and the following. SG] 


Another case we were involved with was the Iranian incident of September 19 th , 1976. Both 
fighters were taken apart to try to find out if there was any way we could explain what really 
happened to those fighters which were having malfunctions at the same time. There was a 
situation where we had some anomalies picked up out where the sighting was- where one of the 
Air Force pilots saw the UFO go down to the ground. We recorded those anomalies with audio 
devices. We took film footage of the area and there were some strange things that showed up on 
that film footage. Everything that took place there at the landing area, I am not privy to. I don’t 
have all the information. It wasn’t something I had to be involved in. But I can tell you this 
much, whatever took place there had people out there for two to three weeks. 


In 1986, 1 believe it was, we fired at a UFO on two occasions. The UFO took off like nothing 
happened. In ‘86 you had the incident where you had 20 or more UFO’s flying around Brazilian 
aircraft, flying rings around them. These documents are important. 


Not more than two-dozen UFOs had been retrieved by 1969 when I was briefed first. We 
were informed that there had only been a couple dozen tops- that there were several in the AO’s 
and the early 50’s. And to make it perfectly clear about those events that took place then, it 
sounds crazy but our radar wreaked havoc on the ET guidance systems and they had to make 
adjustments to their guidance systems for that. 


How many bodies had been recovered? Don’t know. How many crashes have occurred in 
which we only got debris because the ET’s came and did their recovery before we got there? 
Don’t know but it has happened. It has happened. When they had problems, just like we send 
out a distress call, they send out a distress call, which is something that a lot of people don’t thi nk 
about; it’s a question that’s never asked. But here again we think of them as something intangible 
like that stuffed animal there. But they are living, breathing creatures as mortal as you and me. 
They think, they have loves, they have likes, they have dislikes, they have social culture. 


This is so important to try to make people understand that that is the case. I want to put the 
human factor back into UFO’s. And when I say the human factor, I mean that these are real 
people. You can call them entities. You can call them creatures. But you sometimes find 
yourself wondering: who are the more real people, them or us? And these are things that really 
need to be brought out- the fact that they are just like you and me. We need to seek out the 
similarities, not the differences and come to a greater understanding. Because eventually, in the 
not too distant future, we are going to have that final contact that is going to open new doors. . . 


A lot of people sit back and say, well, they don’t have bases here. Ah, yeah, they do. 


We were involved in a major engagement in 1970 in one of their bases in Vietnam 
approximately seven miles from the Cambodian border. If you want to know more about that, I 
did an audiotape on that. And I’ll make you a copy of the audiotape. I will apologize for actually 
trying to hold back from some of the stories simply because if I start talking about some of the 
stories you start reliving them. And you don’t understand, I mean, you really don’t understand. . . 




248 






TH 


m 


I 




000909 






f -j T r fy 56 v 


PR TOR TTY 








OCT 1 




HSG654 




OB 13 




To 1 0 MTMS-CCCC— BJFFHOA.' 




w5:r 




" n 




■ S' : 




action: nonf-j 


TNFor 


ATCZYUU RUFKJCS37J? ? 


ny x r pop - .).. ;*;. T 


P 2308307 SEP 76 


fm jcs - 


3NFO RUSHC/SECSTATE WASH DC 
RtlFAIIF/C I A' : 


RUFOTAH/NSA WASH DC 
R UFADU U/UHITE HOUSE -NASH DC 
PUFFHOA/CSAF WASH DC 
RUFNAJU/CNO >W«SH DC 
RUFADHD/CSA lu ASH DC 
k 2 306 30 7 SEP . 76 ] . . ,‘ 


FM USD AO TEHRAN 
TO RIJFK.ICS/OI A V ASHD C 
INFO RUFKUCS/SECDEF DEPSECDEF iUASHDC 
RUFRH4 4/CPHIDFAS TF OR 


RUDOEC A/CTNCUSAFF 1. 1 NO SE Y '"is 5 BE 71 NCF 
■RHF’RaAB/CTNCUSAFF -RAHSTEIN ab IGE/INOCN 
RUSNAAA/FUDAC VAIHINGEN GER-' • 


RUSNAA A/USCTNCEUR -VAIHINGEN GER/ECJ-2 


at . 


CONFIDENTIAL 123S SE P.7 E 
THIS TS If? 6 8A6 0139 76 


r. <U) TRAN '* : 


REPORTED UFO SIGHTING < U3 
(UJ NA _'l 


3 3 R 20 SEP 76 ! 


TEHRAN. IRANI 20 SEP .76 
F-6 ..... 


6 8 A 6 DD08 CNOTE RO C0HHENT51 
6 8 **S 0133 76 
22SEP 76 
NA 




2 . 


3u 
4. f U 3 
•S-. (U» 
6 . (U) 


IF.- ?U» 
B. <U3 
*). ( U 3 


lOl. f U 3 




7 


A- 


Hi : 


r 




•11-, tU> •••INITIATE’ IPSP PT-1RHO.' 


1 2- , <U3 U-SDAO. TFHRAN. IRAN 


13- tU3 FRANK B- MCKENZIE. ■ COL. USAF. :OA-7r 


.m- ‘ C yj > NA . . 


15 ‘ V*? THIS PE f. 0PT FORWARDS INFORMATION C ONCE RNING TKE 


K S . IG H'J MG 9»Vv;ANli.FO .IN IRAN ON Jj 9 SEPTEMBER 1-976 


. r A.--. AT. ABOUT .1230 1H - - --- -- — 1 ’ r 




ON lOSEP .76 THF I | 


RECETV ED F ou R TEL E PH ON E • C A ELS 




FROM C1TTZENS LIVING IN THE SHE HI R AN AREA OF TEHRAN :SAYTNG 




PRIORITY 








0 0 **> * ***••• • 
















tf' tiS. - 




if. 




i 


4 


I 


II 




I 


J 


a 


! 




jl 




- 249 






249 










57 








1 T „ E , HLO SEC" ° T St«E"s" EE POOTC n'i^HrLICOEE EB 


H ! A "£ 2 


3SE“«? E s”"IEEB D EO°E tsT * B ' 


■serMMj 


;s,*^ss- rSs£ ^.ws.*? 1 


•NTERCEPT AND HEADED 8 ACK „. BE KTLY HAS NO LONGER A THREAT 
;„.V FROM THE OBJECT * N ° ^ P ^lMnItRUHENT AT ^X)N AND COH- ... 


, tt THE AIRCRAFT REGAINED ALLO. ^ mS j. ARCHED- -THE^ • 


INTCATIONS- AT pi *10 HRS *_ S F ncK 0N AT 27 NH, 12 O'CLOCK 
' 1 , n , RADAR LOCK ** “_ L_ , rn MHPH. 




IT THE AIKCF«r. C0ND F _(j yAS lAUULntu. ■ - 


MTCATIONS- AT 01*10 HRS *_ S 5 ncK on AT 2 7 NM* 12 O'CLOCK 
CKSEATER ACQUIRED A MOAR LOCK oi M * AT 150 NMPH. 


g 5 POSITION KITH THE VCMBATE. . ' C oBJECT HOVED AtfAT AT A 


THE RANGE DECREASED TO « *•« THE OBJE^ anO ST AYEO AT 25** 


« MCI »«««.« «»2SiiS £ "C LI GHTS *« » 


□ AND ORANGE IN COLOR- THE crFN AT ONCE . THE OBJECT 


i^TH^RORSU ING^F " L C0 W P e s^H Ke^T E 


j'sj’s iff'ssirsPifsrLJSs -sils sa. **»«* 


5.u s ?-i c » A * M i; sri-is? s"« ;r 
s^«r.s:y ,, ciS2^5--^ T r5 > r!.&^i«r 


s«isrnv.%“« « sS 1 hi?' 


D-.?, SHORTLY AFTER THE » ECONO T0 cji „ E OUT OF THE 


Rt'HAfeY OBJECT ANOTHER OBJECT APPEAFAD 


. - _ - .ArnCDiA****** 




OPXTY 




priority 




2 . DCT, t 




MS66S4 




C OTHER ST OE Of THE PRIMARY OBJECT -GOING STRAIGHT DOWN-AT A ! 


-GREAT rate -OE SPEEOJ THE F-4 CREW HAD REGAINED COMMUNICATIONS 
HMD THE WEAPONS CONTROL PANEL AND WATCHED THE OBJECT APPROACH 
the GROUND ANTICIPATING A t A RGE E XPL OS 1 0 N_ 7 HI S OB JECT A PPE ARE D 
■; TO COME TO REST GENTLY ON THE EARTH ANO CAST A VERY BRIGHT 
, LIGHT, OVER "AN AREA OF ABOUT 2-3; K ILOMETERS". 


THE CREW OESCENOED F RO H THEI R A LT ITU DE OF 26 H T015« AND 
--‘CONTINUED TO OBSERVE AND MARK .THE OBJECT’S POSITION. THEY 
,*r HAD SOME 'DIFFICULTY IN ADJUSTING THEIR NIGHT VISIBILITY FOP 
'■LANDING SO AFTER ORBITING MEHPABAD A FEW .TTMES THEY -WENT OUT 
4 ' F OR A STRAIGHT IN LANDING. THERE WAS A LOT OF INTERFERENCE 
ON -THE- UHF ' ATO EACH TIME THEY PASSEn THROUGH A MAG. BEARING 
i OF ISO DEGREE FROM EHRABAO THEY LOST THEIR C OMHUNI C A T I ONS ‘f UHF 


AND IKTFPPHONE) ANO THE I NS FLUCTUATED FPOM 30 DEGREES - 50 DEGREES 
ft THE' ONE CTVTL ATRLTNER THAT UAS APPROACHING MEHRABAD DURING ‘THIS 
T SAHE TIME EXPERIENCED COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE IN THE SAME 
VICINITY IKTLO ZULU) BUT DID NOT REPORT SEEING ANYTHING. 


* VHILE THE Ft** UAS ON A LONG FINAL APPROACH the- CREW NOTICED 
5 another CYLINDER SHAPED OBJECT f ABOUT T^JE SIZE- OF a T-BIRD 
i AT TOM) WITH BRIGHT STEADY LIGHTS ON EACH END AND A FLASHER 


• IN THE MIDDLE- WHEN QUERIED THE TOWER ST AT EO THERE WAS NO 
x OTHER KNOWN TRAFFIC IN THE AREA.. DURING THE TTHE T-HAT THE 


3 OBJECT PASSED OVER THE F-«« THE TOWER DID A OT HAVE A VISUAL 
ON IT BUT PICKED IT UP AFTER THE PILOT TOLD THEM TO LOOK 
BETWEEN THE MOUNTAINS and THE refinery. 


5 E- DURING DAYLIGHT THE F-4 CR EU WAS TAKEN DUT TO THE 
AREA IN A HELICOPTER WHERE THE- OBJECT APPARENTL Y- HAD. LANDED. 
NOTHING WAS NOTICED AT THE SPOT WHERE THEY THOUGHT THE OBJECT 
. LANDED I A DRY LAKE BED) BUT AS THEY CIRCLE D OFF TO. THE 
WEST OF THE AREA THEY PICKED UP A VERY NOTICEABLE BEEPER 
SIGNAL- A-T THE POINT WHERE THE RETURN WAS THE LOUDEST WAS 
A' SHALL HOUSE WITH A GARDEN. THEY LANDED AND ASKED THE PEOPLE 
WITHIN IF THEY HAD NOTICED ANYTHING STRANGE LAST NTGHT. THE 
PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT A LOUD NOISE AND A VERY BRIGHT LIGHT 
LIKE LIGHTENING. TH£‘ AIRCRAFT >AND AREA WHERE THE OBJECT IS- 
BELWEVFD TO have LANDED .ARE; BEING CHECKED FOR POSSIBLE RAOIATION i. 




MORE INFORMATION WILL BE 


F-OR WARDED WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. 




P.T ■ ' 


K’B7 17 


P TCCZYUW HUFK JCSM7 12 Z 6708 ID t 01 30-CC CC 




2670814 




*****.*****+«-.*. *■ . * + *+**•»** + 




PRIORITY 






251 












MCB4CC CfKTfR 








ft 




'.i 




fOOlofo 


« r v.-v .• ••- . !.• • 




18143 




PAGE- 8 


• > 18, (U> U3DA0, TEHRAN, IRAN 


is.,: ;(y> frank b, hckenzie, col, usap, oatt 
cuj na • ,. • V— ; 


13, ■■ THIS REPORT PORHAROS INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 


• . SIGHTING OF AN UFO IN IRAN ON 10 SEPTEMBER 1976*, 


A, *T ABOUT 1238 -.AM ON 19 SEP 76 THE XMPERXDAL IRANIAN 
V AIR.iFORCE (XI AF) COMMANO POST RECEIVED FOUR TELEPHONE CALLS 


- ’ FROirClTIIENS LIVING IN THE SHEHIRAN AREA OF TEHRAN SAYING 


•: THAT- THEY HAD, SEEN STRANGE OBJECTS IN THE SKY, SOME REPORTED 
. • A KINO . OF BIRO. LIKE OBJECT NHILE, OTHERS K -PORTED A HELICOPTER 
' .'KITH A-.LIGHT ON, .THERE WERE NO HELICOPTERS AIRBORNE AT THAT 
TIME, THE COMMAND PDST CALLEO BG YOUSEFI, ASSISTANT OEPUTY 
. . COMMANDER : 0F OPERATIONS,* AETER HE:TOLO THE CITIZEN IT NAS ONLY 
.. STARS AND HAD TALKED TO MEHRABAO TOWER HE OECIDED TO LOOK FOR 


- \ HIMSELF,. HE NOTICED AN OBJECT IN THE SKY SIMILAR TO A STAR -V. 


BIGGER AND BRIGHTER, HE OECIDED TO SCRAMBLE AN F.4 FROM 
SHAHROKHI AFB TO INVESTIGATE, 


- . ■ * « , r * T 3138 HRS ON THE 10TH THE P-4 TOOK OFF AND PROCEEDED 


. TO -A POINT ABOUT 48 NM NORTH. OF TEHRAN, DUE TO ITS BRILLIANCE 
THE OBJECT NAS EASILY VISIBLE FROM 78 MILES AWAY, 


.. AS- ThE. F-4 APPROACHED A RANGE OF 25 NM HE LOST ALL IN1TRUMEN TATI ON 
“* AND'- COMMUNICATIONS (UHF AND INTERCOM), ME BROKE OFF THE •* 


• • INTERCEPT AND HEAffEO BACK TO SHAHROKHI, WHEN THE F.4 TURNED 
•-AMAT. .PROM THE -OBJECT -AND APPARENTLY NAS NO LONGER A THREAT • 


~ TO XT. JHE AIRCRAFT •REBAINCD ALL INSTRUMENTATION ANO COM. 
MUNICATIONS, *T 8148 HRS A SECOND F.4 NAS LAUNCHEO, THE 
BACKSEATER ACOUIREO A RADAR LOCK ON AT 87 NM, 12 O'CLOCK 
NIGH POSITION NITH THE VC (RATE OF CLOSURE) AT 150 NNPM, 


AS THE RANGE DECREA8E0 • TO 85 NM THE OBJECT MOVED A*AY AT 














>• 


*. - •>: 








- 1 - 


252 








'-A 




252 










^ ^ j * 001.084 




V: v,* i*% • . ’ •* ? .. •** • /Mmsccmit"* *■* * j* *’ * ^ •' 




• .* 




i204rv'.V,. 
?. * £*•• 








• „/• 


■ %».• 


• /.* 
•.'••'fv 




■ PACE 3 


INSTANT HU WEAPONS' CONTROL PANEL * EN I L 22! 


COMMUNICATIONS (UHF AND INTERPHONE) AT *°* N ' .™ E PXU0T 


i INITIATED A. TURN AND NEGATIVE G DIVE T0 ** * E . onlIT 
" TURNED THE OBJEAZ FELL IN TRAIL AT WHAT APPEARED . O d ®5 A b3° UT 
3,4 NM. AS HE CONTINUED in HIS TURN AHAY FROM THE PRIMARY 
'•.'•^OBJECT THE SECOND OBJECT WENT TO THE INSIDE OF HIS TURN THEN 
-ffRITURNEO TO THE PRIMARY OBJECT FOR A PERFECT REJOIN. 


D-, -SHORTLY AFTER THE SECOND OBJECT JOINEO UP JJ*™ JHE 
• PRIMARY OBJECT ANOTHER OBJECT APPEARED TO COME OU. Or THE 


• • OTHER -SIDE OF THE PRIHARY OBJECT; GOING STRAIGHT, D-WN, AT A 


• GREAT. RATE OF SPEED. THE F-4 CREH HAD REGAINED COMMUNICATIONS 
AND’ THE WEAPONS CONTROL. PANEL AND HATCHED THE OBJECT APPROACH 
THE BROUND ANTICIPATING A LARGE: EXPLOSION, THIS OBJECT APPEARED 
TO'COME TO REST GENTLY ON THE EARTH ANO CAST A VERY BRIGHT 
LIGHT- OVER AN AREA OF ABOUT : 2«S KILOMETERS, 


THE CREW OESCENOEO FROM THEIR ALTITUOE OF 26M TO ISM AND 
CONTINUED TO OBSERVE AND MARK THE OBJECT • 8 POSITION, -THEY 
HAD SOME DIFFICULTY IN ADJUSTING THEIR NIGHT VISIBILITY FOR 
LANDING SO AFTER ORBITING HEHRABAO A FEW TIMES 


' FOR A^STRAIGHT IN LANDING, THERE WAS A LOT OF INtERFERENCE 
ON THE UHF AMD EACH TIME THEY PASSED THROUGH A HAG, BEARING 
OF 180 DEGREE FROM EHRABAD THEY LOST THEIR COMMUNICATIONS (UHF 
AND INTERPHONE) AND THE INS FLUCTUATED PRON 30 0E3REES - SB DEGREES,:--, 
THE ONE CIVIL AIRLINER THAT WAJi APPROACHING MEHRA3AD DURING THIS • : - v 
’ SAME . TIME EXPERIENCED COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE IN THE SAME . . 


VICINITY' (KlCO ZULU) BUT 010 NUT REPORT SEEING ANYTHING, 


. WHILE THE F»4 WAS ON A LONG FINAL APPROACH THE CNEW NOTICED 
ANOTHER CYLINDER 8HAPED OBJECT (ABOUT THE SIZE Of A T-BIRO 
AT IBM), WITH BRIGHT 8TEA0Y LIGHTS ON EACH END ANS A FLASHER ' 


•IN THE MIOOLE, WHEN QUERIED THE TOWER STATED THENE WAS NO 


• • OTHER. KNOWN TRAFFIC IN. THE AREA, DURING THE TIME THAT THE.. 


-. ,uc...>nucD nrn :un.T HiV - L- VISUAL 










- 2 -. 




- 253 - 




253 










Hi 5“u'« CE ' ,N ° 


FORHAWOEP WMEN_1T_ BECOMES AVAILABLE, 




BT 


• S3 7 5 
ANN0TE8 
JEP 117 




• :?'■ 




' "r/r * ‘ . • 


**• 




• / . .• 




v v':ry; 








r° 


Co 




Pg . 


g, 








cr,0 G 


Sz * ■ 




07 




Co 




.':vV •*>.. 




- 3 t • ‘ ' '•• 


254 - 




;V- ' : ••/'.U'.v . *• <<.*'$> 












254 












Testimony of Major-General Vasily Alexeyev 


March 1997 


(Our deepest gratitude to Valery Uvarov for interviewing Major General 
Alexeyev and to Michael Hesemann for sharing this interview.) 


Major-General Alexyev, of the Space Communications Center in Russia, is considered 
one of the most knowledgeable Russian Generals. He states that if extraterrestrials are 
capable of traversing vast distances, then they are probably from a higher level of 
civilization. And if this is true then they must be concerned with normal development 
of relations between people - constructive progress, not destructive. He says that if we 
look at our Earth history, we will see a tale of self-destruction, murder and death of 
entire peoples. He believes that advanced civilizations would not tolerate such behavior 
because their life would have a different meaning and be understood in a larger context. 


Major-General Alexyev knows of many eyewitness reports of unusual craft documented 
in specific Soviet papers. Various departments within the Government began 
investigating this phenomena including the Defense Ministry and the Academy of 
Sciences. They have many reports of UFO’s seen over locations containing high 
concentrations of advanced science like nuclear facilities. In some cases they have 
learned how to create situations where they could deliberately provoke the appearance 
of UFO’s, and in these ‘contacts’ for example, they would point their arms in various 
directions and the UFO’s would respond by flattening their spheres in the same 
direction. There was a case just outside Moscow where a warrant officer found him s elf 
at the site of a UFO landing and the extraterrestrials made contact with him 
telepathically and asked him if he would like to visit inside the craft. 


VA: Vasily Alexeyev VU: Valery Uvarov 


VA: . . .The information coming in from the bases was of interest if only because it was not 


merely talk and rumors; there were eye-witnesses to phenomena and that was reflected in specific 
documents and the reports of officials. At times this information was of such a fascinating nature 
that it was impossible not to believe it. Eater the question no longer seemed so fantastic and 
began to be examined at the level not only of the Defense Ministry, but of other government 
departments as well. This interest specifically expressed itself in certain experts being sent to 
investigate, especially to those places where UFOs, let’s call them that, appeared quite frequently. 
I know a whole number of military bases in that category. As a rule they are objects of strategic 
significance, rocket complexes, scientific test establishments, in other words, there is a high 
concentration of advanced science and, to some degree, danger. Because every nuclear rocket, 
every new air force installation represents a breakthrough both in science and military terms; it is 
first and foremost a peak, the summit of human achievement. And that is where UFOs appeared 
fairly often. Moreover, individual officers and commanders on the spot who knew about the 
phenomenon and had no official instruction on the matter, acted on their own initiative to 
investigate UFOs, recording data, and so on. I know that in some places they even learned to 
create a situation which would deliberately provoke the appearance of a UFO. A UFO would 
appear where there was increased military activity connected, say, with the transportation of 
“special” loads. It was enough to artificially stimulate or schedule such a move for a UFO to 
appear. In other words, some kind of conditional relationship emerged. And they detected it. 
We’re an intelligent nation; nothing escapes us. I know that at certain testing ranges - I won’t 
name them, although it’s no longer a secret - they even learnt to make contact of a kind. What 




255 






did that consist of? First the UFO appeared; in most instances it was a sphere, but there were 
other kinds. Contact was achieved with the help of physical indications of behavior - pointing 
your arms in various directions, say, and the sphere became flattened in the same direction. If 
you raised your arms three times, the UFO flattened out in a vertical direction three times as well. 


In the early 1980s, on the instructions of the then Soviet leadership, experiments using 
technical devices (theodolites, radar stations, and others) were carried out as a result of which the 
unidentified objects were firmly recorded as instrumental data. . . 


Reports of UFO sightings came in regularly. And evidently somewhere nearer the core of 
our leadership in the sphere of the Defense Ministry, the Academy of Sciences and so on, a lot of 
this kind of information began to build up. And not only from ordinary laymen, but from 
scientists and professionals as well. Military men in general are not inclined to fantasize. They 
only report what they see, what actually occurs. They are people you can believe. You should 
not forget that the arms race was still going on at this time, a struggle for military and other 
priorities. New discoveries in science and technology were being made all the time. The UFOs 
were something new and not understood. And there really was an idea that they might be some 
means of gathering intelligence... But it is interesting that one of the official versions from the 
commission, including among the final points, was the possibility that UFOs belonged to an 
extraterrestrial civilization! That was interesting! ... 


By the nature of my work I received information from various military units across Russia, 
the Soviet Union, as it then was. I know that that material was sent on without any explanations 
or annotations to the relevant bodies higher up. I was aware that there were groups engaged in 
investigating UFOs, and perhaps something more, but at that time the level of secrecy over this 
question was such that all that took place was receiving information and subsequently sending it 
on higher up: People came to see me, but, as we were military men, there were no explanations 
of any kind. They simply said they were interested in this or that. Then they came up with a 
table with pictures of all the shapes of UFOs that had ever been recorded - about fifty - ranging 
from ellipses and spheres through to something resembling spaceships. Witnesses were asked 
what it looked like, then they pinned down the locality and so on. After which all the material 
was passed on. As a result, it is hard to say how the work was continued, to what extent it was 
scientific. I knew that some kind of work was going on in the Defense Ministry, the Academy of 
Sciences and the intelligence services. But things were such that those who weren’t directly 
connected with the investigations didn’t know what was going on. We only provided the 
information. I must admit that there was an awful lot of information. And here, around Moscow, 
above many air-defense sites, testing-ranges and other installations - those are the places where 
UFOs appear most often. . . 


It is a global issue, a geopolitical one. I am sure that the Americans and other countries have 
built up a large quantity of this kind of information. I am certain today that there is a great deal of 
this information. And anyway, this issue, like thermonuclear weapons, is a global one. It is a 
question of the survival of humanity, considering how poor our conceptions about the 
environment and energy resources are, the ecological problems that are emerging. We bum up 
the oxygen and do a lot of other things, and in the last resort it is hard to say where we will end up 
and to what extent these processes are irreversible. A way out has to be found; there must be 
some kind of breakthrough. With those problems in mind, the study of UFOs may reveal some 
new forms of energy to us, or at least bring us closer to a solution. Therefore, questions bound up 
with the UFOs and all the accompanying phenomena are, I believe on the whole, the concern of 
all mankind. And here our leaders at the relevant level should take matters seriously and find an 
acceptable solution. Many prominent scientists of world ra nk have spoke of the need for such an 




256 






approach. Why it hasn’t come about yet is hard to say... Many countries today have reached a 
certain level in science and in the study of this question. We have obtained certain results and at 
present the issue is the creation of some single body that would bring together all our knowledge 
on this matter. I believe things would be easier then. The Americans have got something 
interesting, so have we. Conclusions have been made and data assembled, for years gone by as 
well, and now they have been “shelved” somewhere. Perhaps it would be enough to put one 
thing together with another for the whole question to appear in a completely different light. . . 


There was a case with us outside Moscow when two warrant officers felt an inner urge to go 
outside. And one of them found himself directly at the landing site of a flying device. He made 
mental contact - not at the level of speech, but telepathically, in thought forms. He was given an 
invitation to visit the space-ship, but due to fear or some purely personal reasons he couldn’t 
accept. Later he made some interesting drawings of the ship. I saw their explanatory notes and 
drawings depicting what they had seen. Their account was supplemented by the reports and 
drawings of the duty officers and their deputies and a whole number of conscripts who were on 
guard duty. In all the accounts, the place and time were compatible and the drawings of the ship 
flying away had much in common. . . 


When you have the mass of documentary material which I have worked with, from specific 
people, eye-witnesses, and that over a period of several years, in different regions, then your 
attitude to the UFO phenomenon naturally changes. You know, I have kept some photographs 
for myself. . . 


There are a large number of facts like that, inexplicable for contemporary science. As if 
some kind of intelligence was reacting. 


VU: What do you think - are UFOs representatives of other civilizations? 


VA: I think that if their level of civilization allows them to move in space across great 
distances, possibly in other forms of material - and that is indeed the case - then at their level of 
development, when it comes down to it, they are also concerned about normal relations between 
people, some sort of progress, ultimately the survival of intelligent life, if it does exist in the 
world. And if we look at the Earth from that point of view, then our whole history is a tale of 
self-destruction, and not creation. It’s the history of murders and the death of whole peoples. Not 
a singe truly civilized society could tolerate that. Life has a different meaning. No normal person 
can walk past if a child is drowning! They will save it, if only because the child represents their 
future. And the higher the level of civilization, the greater the awareness of that. If that works at 
the level of the single individual, then it will also work at the level of civilizations. But they do 
not interfere nevertheless, because each civilization should develop independently, according to 
certain laws. Outside interference in natural processes is always a risky business. But some sort 
of correction, not allowing processes of disintegration to being when they will bring the history of 
civilization to an end, is evidently included in the plans of the Higher Intelligence. 




257 








PACE : OOO 1 




IHBJIIE*DOC4D 
ITEM W*0022M71 
ENVELOPE 


IncaUw BUEIUCSOWJ 330 190*-! 




-BUEALGX. 




HUM! 


0419092 NOV B7 i _ 


FM JCS WASRINGTOH PC 
IKfO IUEADWD/OCSA WASHINGTON DC 
BVENAAA/CNO WASHINGTON DC 
XUEDADA/AFIS AMHS BOLLINC AFB DC 
BUEAHQA/CSAF WASHINGTON DC//BO-CIC/XOXX// 


BUEAI1A/CIA WASHINGTON DC 
BUEHC / SEC5TATE WASHINGTON DC 
BUU.1CC/CHC CC WASHINGTON DC j 


BUKTIAH/DIBNSA FI CEOBCZ G MEADE HD 
BUEACMC/CHC WASHINGTON DC 
BUETIAQ/MPC FI GIOBGB G MEADE MD 
BUEALGX/ SAFE ’ 


B 2517162 NOV 87 


ni PET 21 afsac FT BILVOIB VA 


TO BUnJCS/DIA WASHDC 


INTO XUEDADA/AFIS INTELLIGENCE DAIA HANDLING 5ISIEM 
XUEDADA/AFIS AMHS BOLLINC AFB DC / / INJIH/ / 


BUEAHQA/KQ USAF WASH DC //IN// 


BUCUAAA/HQ SAC OFTUTT AFB NE //INCB// 


1UCIPBA/HQ IAC LANGLEY AFB VA //INTO// 


XUQVAAO/BQ ESC DCS 1NIELLIGESCE KELLY AFB IX //WAX// 
BUEOAYB/CDBFSIC CHABLOTTESVILLE VA //A1F1CB// 
XVCIAEA/FTD WFAIB OH //5CI5// 


BUEA1IA/CIA WASH DC ' I, 


BBFFAAA/UTAIS XAMSTIIN AB GE / / 1NACH/ / 
BUSNNOA/U5CINCEUB VAIHINGEN GE //ijCJZ-C// 
BVCUAAA/JSTFS OFFUIT AFB NE //JIVI// 


BUWTNOA/HQ ArSPACECOM PETEXSON AFB CO //IMA// 


BT 


CONTXOLS ■ 




w 01 OF 02 


IIX 1 317 0002 




mm . 




PACE 02 XUEOFUA3«9 ”■ 


country: MD ussx pub). 


..SOW; III 1 517 0002 88/UFO SITING IN 5HADBINSK j 




FACl:0002 




•J!'1 . 
:■ : 




department or defense 




s' %• 




DOI: 


. • - 




740900. 




' IEQS:© A-FSC-43097 ; U-GEM-G31J1. 


SOURCE: MB& / /WASH-05813// Dieted per 3 O.S.C. 552(b) «*> 
Delated per 3 O.S.C. 552(b) fO SOURCE HAS ABOVE AVERAGE 
thtthicenc e . i s VERY cooperative, and is believed 10 he tiuthful. 
SWtlAU: TB1S REPORT CONTAINS INFORMATION ON A UFO SUING IN 


SRADRINSK 7 KURCANSKAYA OBLAST, USSR, WHINS AUCUSI OR SEPTEMBER 1974. 


i 


J. THE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORI IS BASED ON SOURCE'S 


PERSONAL OBSERVATIONS 


Deleted per 5 O.S.C. 552(b)(1) 






PACE 03 KUEOFUA0459 _ 


OP IBS Cm OF 5HADRINSK, KUR5ANSKAYA OBLAST 1 (GEOCOORD-- 
5S05N/0633BE) (NIS GAZ). 


2 fED THE PHENOMENON DESCRIBED BY SOURCE MAS A STRONG, BRIGHT 
LIGHTirTHE FORM OP A TRIANGULAR SEGMENT THAI EMANATED PROM AN 
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT IN THE SKY. (PIELD^COttlBIT-SOWCI SAID 
THE SEGMENT OF LIGHT APPEARED TO B! THREE-DIMENSIONAL, AND IT II 
COULD HAVE BEEN SEEN FROM ABOVE OR BftOW, II WOULD HAVE APPEARED 
CONICAL.) TRI5 PHEN'OMENON WAS OBSERVED ON A CLEAR SUWER NIGHT IN 
EITHER AUGUST OR SEPTEMBER OF 197 A, AS SOURCE STOOD ON A STREET 
BETWEEN TWO BUILDINGS OF THE FACILITY. IT LAI LOW ON THE HORIZON 
AND SEEMED TO BE OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS. II MOVZD TROM SOUIH TO 
NORTH FOR ABOUT 10 TO 15 MINUTES, THEN WAS OBSCURED TECM VISION BY 
TWO- STORY BUILDING OP THE PACRITI. IT MADE NO SOUND AS II MOVED. 


3 . PRISENI WITH SOURCE AT THE TIME OP OBSERVATION WAS THE 


SENIOR NAVIGATOR OP THE FLIGHT-TRAINING DEPARTMENT, Deleted per 
Deleted per 5 tJ.S.C. 552(b) «0 EVERYONE P1ESINY 


AGREED THAI THE LIGHT PRODUCED BY THE FLYING OBJECT WAS BRIGHTER AND 
STRONGER THAN ANYTHING THEY HAD EVER OBStRVED BEFORE, AND TRAY HO 
AIRCRAFT KNOWN TO THEM COULD PRODUCE SUCH A LIGHT. THE! AL50 AGREED 
THAT IHE PHENOMENON WAS EITHER A HEW TECHNOLOGY BEING TESTED BY IHI 


IF 




5 TJ.S.C 




PACE 0^ RUEOFUAOW 


sovins, SOME FORM OP HOSTILE ACTIVin BEING CONDUCTED BY THE US 




OR 




Deleted per 




Jl^mmEmiAL^CRAPT. (nap cquieht- source str ess ed mi he 




><») IN HIS CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT BEFORE AND 




AFJE1JIS MILITARY SERVICE, AND THEREFORE WAS ABLE 10 VIIW THE 
PHENOMENON SCIENTIFICALLY. ALSO, THE MAJOR WAS A PORMEI NAVIGATOR 
VRO WAS VERY FAMILIAR WITH SOVIET AIRCUPT CAPABILITIES. HE WAS 




, >r- 




- 259 - 










5 


0 




■ | 




. 552(b)0) 




259 






— IMa: 


VHT MUCH ASTOUNDED BY TUB PHENOMENON AID STXIJ5ED THAI II VAB 
SOMETHING NEVEI BEFOIE PRODUCED BY SOVin TECHNOLOGI, If INDEED Bl 
^ MAN.) AFIE1 THE OBJECT PASSED OUT OP IHKIB LINE Or SIGHT, THE MAJOB 


V- • AWW 


BI 


•St #0*59 . 




• ■*;** 






•i'- . 


IL. 








260 




■fWi: 










261 








K 0 M H TET 


rOCyflAPCTBEHHOfl BE30nAGHOCTH CCCP 




24.I0.9Ir 




195 3/111 




3k3. 




IIp83HA8HTy Bcec*i03H«ft 
‘ y^ojiarnuecKoft accoLjuaqHH 
jieTtinKy— K#CMOHaBTy CCCP 
to*. rienoBHqy n.P. 




Ha fP 5-53 «t 24.09.91 v. 




yBawaeMbi}? naneji Pomshobhii! 


Komhtbt recy^apcTBBHHoii 6e3#nacH#CTn He 3aHHMaeTcn chctc- 
MaTHqacKHM cSepaM h aHajiM38M MH&opMaquH 06 aHOMajibHbix nvxcmm, 
(TaK Ha3HBaeMbix He®no3H8HHbix JieTaiomnx odteKTax). BMeeTe c tcm, 
» KPB CCCP noeTynaeT «T pa3JiHijm>ix epraHM3aijnft ii rpa»,n,SiH HHiJop- 
MaqHH a cjiyyanx HadjnofleHHH tbkhx HBjiemift. HanpaBjrneM BaM koiihh 
ceaTBeTCTByioinHx MaTepnaji* b . PaHee 3 th MarepMajibi no 3anpocy 6 hji 
B ucxaHbi b IJHM M£mnH 0 CTpe 8 HHH r. KajiHHHHrpa^. 


IIpfijioiKeHHe : na TfeKCTy, Ha 124 jihctbx , HecenpeTHa, Tejibica b a^p 




3aM8CTHT«^b IIpe;a,ce,naTejiH KcMHTeTa 






H.A.DIaM 




- 262 




262 






The State Security Committee 


October 24,1 991 # 1 953/Sh 


TO: Com. P.Popovich, 


Pilot-Cosmonaut of the USSR, 


President, 


the All-Union Ufology Association 


Ref. Your# 5-53 of Sept. 24,1991 


Dear Pavel Romanovich, 


The State Security Committee has never been engaged in systematic gathering and 
analysis of information on anomalous phenomena (the so called unidentified flying objects). 
At the same time, the SSC of the USSR has been receiving statements from a number of 
persons and agencies on cases of observations of the above phenomena. We forward You 
the copies of such statements. At an earlier date the same material was sent to the Central 
Machine Building Research Institute, the town of Kaliningrad. 


Appendix: Ref. material on 124 pages, unclassified, to the addressee 


only. ! 


N.A. Shem, 


Deputy Chairman of the Committee 
APPENDIX 




ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA OBSERVATIONCASES WITHIN THE 
TERRITORY OF THE USSR SINCE 1982 TILL 1990 




have 


n 


l 


3 


s 


c 




Included in the Appendix are the data on anomalous phenomena observation cases to 
taken place in the following regions: 


the city of Petropavlovsk on Oct. 20, 1982 4 


the cities of Kursk, Voronezh, Elets on Oct.17, 1983 20 


the residence sight of Guzen on Feb. 3, 1985 32 


Habarovsk krai on May|23, 1985 38 


Primorski krai on Nov.12,1985 40 


the city of Magadan on Nov. 25, 1 986 47 


! - 263 - 




263 






the Tiksi peninsula on Aug. 14, 1987 51 


the town of Mineralnye Vody on Dec. 14, 1 987 55 


the town of Nevinnomysovsk on Dec. 30, 1 987 65 


io Kamchtskaya oblast in "1987-1988 67 


the city of Habarovsk ori May 6, 1 988 70 


the city of Magadan on Oct. 1, 1988 : 75 


the city of Sochi on July 26, 1989 83 


the town of Kapustin Yar on July 28, 1989 96 


I 


Astrahan oblast on Sep. 28, 1989 104 


Magadanskaya oblast oh Oct. 21, 1989 106 


^ ^ Vladimirskaya oblast on Mar. 21 , 1990 


CASE 1 REPORT 


ON ANOMALOUS PHENOMENON OBSERVATION 


in the vicinity of the city of Petropavlovsk 


on October 20, 1 982 


On the case of a UFO appearance in the vicinity of the Petropavlovsk-1 airport 


On October 20, 1982, an Ilyushin-62 airliner, tail number 86457, of the 206th flight 
detachment, Domodedovo Aviation Association, enroute from Moscow to Magadan, flight 63, 
made an unscheduled landing at the Petropavlovsk-1 airport due to poor weather conditions 
at the destination airport. 




Q 


1 




il 


•t 


»3 


•V 
if 
i L 




Approaching the Petropavlovsk-1 airport the crew observed a shining object flying at 
head-on and parallel heading^ and various speeds and flight levels. 


On completion his mission the crew captain Mr. Vesilievyh made an entry on the event 
in the Log of Crew Captains' Testimonials on Petropavlovsk-1 Airport Electronic Aids 
Operation and Airport Services Performance. 




After the plane landing the same object was sighted by two air controllers, an Air Force 
and a civil aviation ones, stationed at the airport control tower (the Petropavlovsk airport is 
jointly operated by the Air Force and civil aviation authorities). 


To investigate and file record the event statements were taken from four crew members 
and two air controllers, the airport meteorological service statement on weather conditions 
filed, and a transcript of crew-to-tower tape recorded communications made. An 
undesiphered cassette of the Mars-BM flight cassette recorder with crew communications for 
the last 30 minutes of flight was withdrawn for the same purpose. The cassette deslphering 
proved to be unfeasible due to the lack of special equipment. 


The investigation revealed that at 19.29 (Moscow time in text only) of December 19, 
1982, the Ilyushin-62 airplane checked the route point of Sobolevo at a flight level of 11400 
meters and began descent to approach the Petropavlovsk- 1 airport. Capt. Vasilievyh caught 
f sight of two light bursts of a light-blue color 45 degrees portside below the level of flight, 


I - 264 - 




264 






C Taxi strip 7. 457. 


C De 457. Runway clear. 




Signature (indistinguishable) 


_ 10.20.82 | CASE REPORT 


ON ANOMALOUS PHENOMENON OBSERVATION 


in the vicinity of the cities of Kursk, Voronez h, Elets 


on October 17, 1983 
REFERENCE NOTE 


on conversation with COL G.K.Skrypnik, CP Duty Officer of (deleted) 


The conversation with COL Skrypnik, (deleted) CP Duty Officer, on the case of a visual 
contact with a UFO that took place in the (deleted) CP quarters on October 24,1983. 




COL Skrypnik recounted that at 6 a.m. on October 17, 1083, MAJ Kiselev, Duty Officer 
of the (deleted) CP reported a visual contact with a UFO which was sporadically moving 
changing its altitude and brightness and periodically emitting _ a_ba am of light directe d 
downwards. The UFO was of a round, shape with a bright halo around it and a darker center. 
Tfie~lJFb was moving randomly and had no definite direction. Observers sighted th 
appearance of periodic light beams emitted from the UFO towards the Earth. At minimum 
distances to the ground the UFO looked like a polyhedron invariably with a shining halo 
around. A P-12 radar engaged atj Georgiu-Dezh did not manage to acquire the object and 
produce any valuable data. By means of a geodetic level sited at Kursk the UFO was visually 
fixed illuminated by the rays of the rising sun at an elevation angle of about 30-50 degrees 
above the horizon and an azimuth; of 30-45 degrees. All the UFO observers are positive that 
the object they watched was not identical to any star in the observation sector. That was 
proved by the UFO random movement with altitude and brightness variations and the periodic 
light beam directed towards the Earth. The UFO was sighted at sunrise when no stars were 
visible. 


Later at about 7 a.m. the UFcj) began gaining altitude to disappear from sight. 


The UFO was observed by ^en. LT Belan in Kursk, Sen. LT Demin at Elets, Sen. LT 
Miagkov at Voronezh. Bearings on' the object they reported were plotted on the (deleted) CP 
plotting board to produce a cross point fix over the city of Voronezh which fact confirmed that 
all of them had been observing the same object. 


Ail the information on the UFO observation was reported by COL Skrypnik through the 
chain of command to COL Galitsin of the Moscow Air Defense District CP. 


APPENDIX: Extract from COL Skrypnik report on one page. 


EXTRACT 


from CP Duty Officers Report Log 
(deleted) i 


At 6 o'clock of October 17, 1983, MAJ Kisilev, (deleted) CP Duty Officer, reports visual 
contact with an unidentified flying object moving randomly at various altitudes and uneven 
brightness. Visual contact confirmed by Kursk, Elets, and personal observation via glasses. 
Elevation angle is 30-50 degrees above the horizon, azimuth is 30-45 degrees from Kursk. 
No stars are visible, the object beirjg observer against the rays of the rising sun, H = 100-200 
km. At 06.09 reported the fact to COL Galitsin of the Moscow AD District CP. The UFO was 
observed by LT Belan in Kursk, Sen. LT Demin in Elets, Sen. LT Miagkov in Voronezh. The 
UFO was being observed for one hour (from 6 to 7 a.m.). 


- 265 - 




265 






Testimony of Master Sergeant Dan Morris, USAF (Retired)/ NRO Operative 


September 2000 




Dan Morris is a retired Air Force career Master Sergeant who was involved in the 
extraterrestrial projects for many years. After leaving the Air Force, he was recruited 
into the super-secret National Reconnaissance Organization, or NRO, during which 
time he worked specifically on extraterrestrial-connected operations. Fie had a 
cosmic top secret clearance (38 levels above top secret) which, he states, no U.S. 
president, to his knowledge, has ever held. In his testimony, he talks of 
assassinations committed by the NS A; he tells how our military deliberately caused 
the 1947 ET craft crashes near Roswell, and captured one of the ETs, which they kept 
at Los Alamos for 3 years, until he died. He talks about the intelligence teams that 
were charged with intimidating, discrediting, and even eliminating witnesses to 
ET/UFO events. He talks about Germany’s re-engineering of UFOs, even prior to 
WWI1. He talks about our current energy crisis — and the fact that we haven’t 
needed fossil fuels since the 1940s, when free energy technologies were developed 
— but have been kept from humanity. This is the real reason for the secrecy of the 
ET/UFO subject. “What the people in power right now don’t want us to know is that 
this free energy is available to everybody.” In conclusion, he warns against the 
weaponization of space and the shooting down of ET craft — this could force them to 
retaliate, and that would be our destruction. 


I had a clearance 38 levels above top secret, which is cosmic top secret -it is the top of all of 
those clearances. It is for UFOs, and aliens, etc. No president has had that level, has ever been 
cleared for that level. Eisenhower was the closest. Well, there are several intelligence agencies- 
the Army had it, the Air Force had it, the Navy had it. And then there were several secret 
intelligence agencies. One that did not exist, it was so secret, was the NRO. You couldn’t 
mention NRO. It is the National Reconnaissance Organization. If you’re on that level, then 
there’s an organization worldwide called AGIO, that’s Alien Contact Intelligence Organization. 
If you pay your dues and you follow the rules, your government is allowed to benefit from that 
organization’s information. Now some people call it the high frontier. The Navy Intelligence 
refer to themselves that way sometimes. And they all work together. Air Force intelligence, 
Naval intelligence, and the NRO were at one time all in a certain part of Langley Air Force Base 
in Virginia. And most of the satellite interpreters were there, most of the intelligence interpreters 
from the Air Force, the Army, the Navy were there, that’s where they worked and interpreted. 


Now, Eisenhower wanted somebody to be in charge, he tried the CIA Director, and it didn’t 
work. The CIA was working primarily for itself. Most of the intelligence directors of the 
services were working for themselves. So he said, “I want it to be independent, I want it to be 
civilian. I want it to be some of our top scientists.” So it was organized but the name of the NRO 
was kept secret for years. 


About 1968 was when it came into being independently. Now before that, during the war, we 
had the OSS, the Office of Strategic Services, and that was mostly spy soldiers, you know, men 
from certain parts of the armed forces formed under the OSS. I never spied for the OSS. I was in 
Air Force intelligence. And another thing that gave me a high security clearance was I was a 
CONRAD courier. . . 




266 






And so when I retired from the Air Force, they knew that I knew some of this stuff, and so 
that’s why they gave me the chance to go work for somebody else who knew that too — the NRO. 


The National Security Agency- the killers work in that. They’re the guys that, when it 
becomes necessary for a ‘problem’ to be removed, they’re... if you watch James Bond, they’re 
double-0 agents, if you get my meaning. And Secretary of Defense Forestall was the first real 
powerful known person that was eliminated because he was going to release the information. 
And nobody has ever paid for that crime, that crime has never really been thoroughly investigated 
by forces to see what happened to him. But most people know that he was thrown out the 
window of a hospital - but he wasn’t killed by being thrown out the window, but he never got up 
alive... 


There are other people who have been eliminated for what they know. One was a friend of 
mine, Phil Snyder, who worked out here in New Mexico building the tunnels- the biggest one that 
he was involved with was the Dulce underground facility. . . . 


And I know that Phil loved this country and he thought these programs were bypassing our 
form of government. The way it was set up, there were too many black projects going on, and 
none were approved by our Congress. 


[See the testimony of Clifford Stone. SG] 


No Congress ever voted on any of these black projects, and he believed the American people 
had a right to know what they were spending their money for and what we were capable of doing. 
And he started talking, so they got rid of him. . . 


But myself, I’m 73 years old and I’ve had a good life and no regrets, and I’ve loved this 
country and I’ve been a Christian all my life, since I was about 1 1 years old, so I believe God 
wants this known, and I believe the cosmos wants this known. And I believe that if we don’t 
break the secrecy... we’re doing our people a great harm keeping it so secret. And if we don’t 
break it, I believe somebody else will. Somebody outside of this planet. I believe some of the 
people who have been with us the last fifty years will break the secret. . . 


Now the two guys who were down there, I told them, “You got your cameras - Official Air 
Force cameras? Go outside and take pictures, go out and tell me what you see.” And they came 
back and said, “There are UFOs sitting out there in formation!” I said, “Well, take pictures, get 
the cameras and take pictures.” And I told the other two, turn the radar cameras on, because we 
had radar cameras that took pictures, too. 


So that was all there, and this building we were in had one whole side that was glass French 
doors, so if you set the radarscope, you’d look outside and see there were UFOs. And so I called 
headquarters. I said, “Okay, we have a contact.” He says, “Y ou mean SAC is running a mission 
against you?” I said, “Not SAC, not SAC.” He says, “What, then?” I said, “Cosmos.” He said, 
“Wait a minute. Describe them on the phone.” So, there was a switch you could throw that 
scrambles everything. “So I said, okay, my phone’s scrambled, is yours scrambled?” “Mine’s 
scrambled.” He says, “What do you mean, you’ve got a cosmic contact?” I said, “I mean there 
are three UFOs sitting out there.” “You taking pictures?” “We’re taking pictures.” “You taking 
radar pictures?” “We’re taking radar pictures, taking real pictures.” He says, “Okay, don’t say 
another word, I will send a courier up there, he’ll get there in about six hours, you turn everything 
over to him.” And I said, “Okay.” So, about six hours later, he’s there, we’ve got everything 




267 






sealed up for him, we give it to him. He heads back to Air Proving Ground Command, and we 
were never, officially notified that they ever received those pictures- it went secret, it went black, 
like it never happened. But, we had copies of the pictures. So I told the guys, the five, I said, 
“Okay, guys, here’s a copy for all of you. Keep them for your grandkids. . .” 


Do you know why we stopped exploding nuclear weapons? We were ordered to do it by 
those ETs from Orion. Orion - they came down and they told us, “Look, you can destroy 
yourselves, so we won’t put up with that. And if you do that, if you explode that planet, and 
you’ve got the capability now...” That’s when we really got their attention and they came down 
and they said, “Look, we won’t let you destroy your planet.” So we want you to stop all nuclear 
testing. They had already stopped us from using weapons. And then they told us, “No more 
nuclear testing.” Now Russia and the United States, we were firm believers by then that those 
people could do what they said. And you saw the time they all showed up over Washington, 
D.C., and we went our jets up after them, and every time the jets would go up, the ULOs would 
zap out, or they’d go to another dimension. The jets would come back to base and the ULOs 
would be back over Washington. Scared the hell out of everybody in Washington, what are they 
going to do? 


What happened was that we found out that high-powered radar would interfere with their 
stability, because we could watch the amplifiers and stabilizers come down when they were low 
and slow. Radar affected the ULOs when they were low and slow. We already knew that, we 
knew it before ‘47, before they came down. And where was most of our radar? White Sands, 
and down at Roswell. Who was stationed at Roswell? The only nuclear bomb squadron in the 
world. So they were interested and we had a lot of radar there, because we were going to protect 
as much as we could. Well, we focused several, big, powerful radars on them, and it caused two 
of them to run together. One of them was the one that went down and landed on the ranch, the 
other was the one that went down into the ha nk and it had two aliens on it lying outside when we 
got there. One of them was wounded or hurt, and the other was alive then, but before we could 
get him anywhere, he had already passed on. But the other we kept at Los Alamos over here for 
about three years. He got sick. We sent out on every frequency range we could and everything 
that he was sick, that we didn’t do it, that they could come and get him if they wanted to. But he 
died before they got here. But they came and got his body, and that’s when they went to 
Washington and had that formation over Washington. So they retrieved his body. 


One time we shot down one and we were catching hell for that. But what do you think we 
did with all these nuclear weapons that we and Russia had? We put nuclear weapons out in space 
as a line of defense. And we were ready to blow them up if they started in. ... 


I became part of a group that would investigate, gather the information, and in the beginning 
it was still under the Blue Book, Snowbird and different covert programs. I would go interview 
people who claimed they had seen something and try to convince them they hadn’t seen 
something or that they were hallucinating. Well, if that didn’t work, another team would come in 
and give all the threats. And threaten them and their family and so on and so forth. And they 
would be in charge of discrediting them, making them look foolish and so on and so forth. Now 
if that didn’t work, then there was another team that put an end to that problem, one way or 
another. . . . 


So, there would be cover stories deliberately put out and then de-bunked. Information, 
disinformation has been going on for 50 years. 




268 






We need help with most of the guys who signed the security oath- that’s the reason he needs 
to keep doing what he’s doing. You know, SG. And get us out from under that. And this needs 
to come out. 


Germany recovered two UFOs before. It was 1931, ‘32, and they took them to Germany and 
started, like we do now, re-engineering. They got ahead, and even before the war started, they had 
a workable UFO. . . 


We’ve got plenty of film, documentary film to show that in the archives. And then we got a 
whole bunch more from the Germans after the war, because we brought, not only Von Braun, but 
we brought Scharberger over here and some of their electromagnetic people who were working 
on the UFOs. And he gave us a jump on everybody else. 


Now the Russians took some people, too, but we had the main ones. Scharberger was out 
here in New Mexico, and he helped us in White Sands and other places around New Mexico. 
And then he felt we’d done him wrong and he went home and two weeks after he went home he 
was killed. 


UFOs are both extraterrestrial and man made. Well, the guys that were doing the UFOs, they 
weren’t sleeping, and Townsend Brown was one of our guys who was almost up with the 
Germans. So we had a problem. We had to keep Townsend Brown- what he was doing on anti- 
gravity electromagnetic propulsion secret. Even back in Tesla’s time, we had free energy that we 
could transfer. All you had to do was just put up an antennae and put a stake in the ground and 
you could light this house and have all the energy you needed. But what do we run on? For the 
last century, we’ve run on petroleum. Who’s in control of the petroleum in the world? A lot of 
people think that Iraq, Iran, and so on, are. They aren’t. We control it, us and the British 
interests. Well, some people refer to this as the secret government. A group of the richest men in 
the world control petroleum. And you don’t need cars unless you have an internal combustion 
engine. Well, if you have one of these units that’s about sixteen inches long and about eight 
inches high and about ten inches wide, then you don’t need to plug into the local electric 
company. These devices bum nothing. No pollution. It never wears out, because there are no 
moving parts. What moves are electrons, in the gravity field, in the electronic field, and they turn 
in opposite directions, okay? You put one in a car- the car would rust and fall down around it 
before it would ever wear out. So what’s that going to do to the world economy that runs on 
petroleum? 


So it’s not that our government and the world doesn’t want us to know that there are other 
people on other planets that have existed for thousands of years. What the people in power right 
now don’t want us to know is that this free energy is available to everybody. . . . 


The American people are stronger than the government gives them credit for, and I believe 
that, I’ve come to that decision myself. That the American people can stand to know the truth, 
and they should know the truth, and that’s one reason I’m coming forward. I want them to know 
that there’s a better life possible. . . 


You know the South African Government admits that they retrieved an ET craft. They don’t 
make any bones about it. And they put out a documentary film that has a police sergeant who’s 
saying that they recovered one- it even shows you pictures of the recovery and so on and so forth. 
Now, what I’ve read is that an agreement was made between our government and them, that we 
would not say anything about them developing and using their first nuclear weapon. That if we 
couldn’t support them in the U.N., that we’d keep our mouths shut, and they would give us that 




269 






ET ship, and we agreed to it, and they did. We sent a C-5A Galaxy over and brought the ship 
back as well as the two aliens that they had gotten out of the ship. They went to Wright-Pat Air 
Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, where we usually send most of what we recover. There are about 
eight levels under the ground, and we store it there. 


So who’s our enemy now? Now some would like for us to believe and would like to develop 
the idea that the aliens are our enemy now. There’s no proof that I have ever read in any official 
document where, unless they were attacked, that they ever shot. And one instance I’ll tell you 
about involved Russia. Now this involved an admiral who had a son who was a MIG pilot in 
their air force. We had an F-18 up in Alaska. And the Russians would send their badgers and 
their beavers out, they’d send their MIGs out, so the 21 st Fighter Squadron in Alaska, they’d go 
up and intercept them. And they were all armed. Fortunately nobody fired. So our controller 
saw, when these MIGs were mixing it up, that there was another ship that moved in, and our 
controller was listening to the Russians say, “Intercept that ship.” They referred to it as ship, it 
wasn’t anything we knew or the Russians knew. And so the two MIGs started intercepting. Our 
guy was told by our controller, “Get out of there, stay in view, but don’t you try to intercept that 
ship!” So as soon as the Russian fighters turned on their armament targeted the UFO, the missiles 
were both destroyed just like that, one after the other. Our guy wasn’t shot at, and he came on 
back home. And that was by a two-star Russian general who told that story. And they also 
interviewed the admiral whose son had told that story to him. . . 


I think the aliens are aware that we’re trying to build weapons against them. Now I’ll tell 
you, we do have a defense, we’re capable of shooting some down. We’ve developed that ability. 
Eisenhower warned the United States public, “Don’t let the military and the industrial weapons 
builders get in power.” He always feared that, and if you look at his last speech, he said that to 
the public. Don’t let them become too powerful. So, we better wake up. We’ve tried to shoot 
down several UFOs. And we’ve been successful, we crashed one in White Sands, New Mexico. 
We were tracking it at the time and we were successful in damaging it enough that it crashed. 
And yes, there were some aliens on it and yes, we got them. This happened about ‘68 or ‘69, 
about the same time the South Africans did it. ... 


We don’t have a threat from Russia anymore, but if we keep shooting at those aliens, we 
might have a threat from them. We should quit that. We should demand that our government stop 
trying to shoot down those aliens. We should cooperate. 




270 






SOUTH AFRICAN! 


AIR FORCE 




THIS FILE HAS SEEN CLASSIFIED BY D.A.F.I. 
IIIFORMATIOH HOT TO BE DIVUIQED - TOP SECRET 






271 














SOUTH AFRICAN AIR FORCE ( 


CLAaaifiip top secret - pp hot oivumr 


DEPARTMENT OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH (DSIR) 
DEPARTMENT OF AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE (DAFI) 




DATE : ' 


SUBJECT: 


CODE NAME: 


FILE HiMBER: 


DC ST I II An Of : 


DCSIONAltO CHANNEL 
RESTRICTED ACCESS : 


PRIORI TT CODE: m 


SPfCTRW* LOT (VI UR 


► OCFENCE COMPUTER PASS CODE - PROCEED WITH CAUTION 




T May 1 BOR 


Unidentified flying Object 






RCO/TOP SECRET 
I UgalntUd IHn* 




CONTENTS: Cfca* Htut ory 


Craft Spacf Meat Iona 
Hwwartofa Spacff fcatTon* 
ConcTutfon 




- 272 - 






272 






n.irine the first week in July I received corfespondence from Mr.X 
which stated that a UFO had crashed in the Kalahari Desert and had 
been recovered by a team of South African Military personnel to a 
secret Air Force base. He also informed me that two live alien 
entities had been found in the craft. The information also stated that’;«J 
a eroup of American Military personnel had arrived and had taken over ^ 
thi investigation. He stated that he would forward a copy of the ,, 
Official South African Top Secret document to me but would send itjg 
later in a letter which would not contain any details of the sender inj*« 
case the letter was intercepted. (Slide 2) ,*|r 


A week later I received the document which consisted of five pages and 
was headed with the South African Air Force crest. Every page of the 
^document was marked Top Secret. (Slide 3) 




outh African 
o report an' 
towards the 
a calculated 
acknowledged 
irborn radar 




fi 




m 




llhe story told by the document was as follows: 


» 


At^il 45pm. 5 on* the* 7*th. May, 1989 a Naval Frigate of the S 
navy was at sea when it contacted Naval Headquarters t 
unidentified flying object on their radar scope, heading 
South African continent in a North Westerly direction at 
speed of- 5746 nautical miles per hour. This message was 
and confirmed that the object was also being tracked by a 
and military ground radar installations. 


The object entered South African air space at 1.52pm. and at this time 
radio contact was attempted but to no avail. As a result two Mirage 
jet fighters were scrambled on an intercept course. 


At 1.59pm, Squadron leader ------- the pilot of one of the Mirage 


fighters stated over the intercom that they had radar and visual:', 
confirmation . of the craft. The order was given to arm and fire the 
Thor 2 experimental laser canon. This was done. 


(Thor 2 is a Top Secret experimental beam weapon) 


The Squadron Leader reported several blinding flashes eminating from . 
the object which had started wavering and it started to decrease speed 0 
and altitude at the rate of 3000 feet per minute. It eventually 
crashed at a 25 degree angle into the dessert in Botswana v!; 


c ‘ -f- 


A recovery team was dispatched to the crash site where it was found 
that the UFO was embedded in the side of a large crater in the sand, £ ' 
The sand in the vicinity of the object was fused together due to the ■&. 
intense heat. One telescopic leg protruded from the side of the craft 
as if caused by the impact.. , ' 


..jM 


Large recovery helecopters were flown to the site and the first one • ■. sc- 
reeching the scene overflew the object at a height of 500 feet and v 
immediately stalled and crashed. Five crew members were killed,; It'was 
found that vehicles approaching the object also developed engine..- 
trouble due to an intense electro magnetic field coming from the 
object. , 




n 




n 




-.j 








- 273 - 




J 


X 




'a" 




273 










n Q nainf like compound was received at the site and painted 
K^ibject which appeared to neutralise the magnetic field. 


Ku.f ua <> p ventuallv conveyed to an Air Force Base and was taken 
S a the J ' sixth level Underground? At this time it was totally intact. 
liUt this was going on the American Team from Wright Patterson AFB 


rrived. 


tha recovery team and scientists were mulling over the object 
^ r a t ten t ion was sudden ly attracted to a noise from the side of the 
feraf t." They noticed that an opening had appeared in the Sld ®* w * 
Vdoorwav but had only opened to a small gap. Attempts were made to open 
^iHoor but without success so hydraulic pressure gear was used to 
jEfc*, the door^ open. 


Sc»i„s , .re. -M »t 


Seriously / n J“ r / d a ^ ng d0Ct T l r e 3 attacked doctor received severe deen 
'batches to the faceand SLtfromtheclaws of the alien. (Slide 8$ 
tngemlnts ^ere made for the UFO and the aliens to be transported to 
ght Patterson AFB, Dayton Ohio, USA. 


1 cargo was flown out in two Galaxy -C2 Aircraft on the 23rd. June 
19 accompanied by the American Air Force personnel. 




As a result of this information a person who will remain unnamed 
telephoned the South African AFB where the Mirage Fighters had been 
Scrambled. This man was a Private Investigator m America for many 
years and therefore well versed in speaking American. He asked to be 


|connected to Squadron Leader the conversation went as 


follows: 






[s that Squadron Leader 




1EPLY 




Yes . 




^QUESTION. This is General Brunei speaking from Wright Patterson. I 
ihave the document in front of me code named 




(■REPLY. 




Yes. 




QUESTION. I am confused, this document does not say how many times 
yjou fired at the object. 


f REPLY. Who did you say you were sir. 


■^QUESTION. General Brunei, surely Squadron Leader it's a straight 
^forward question, how many times did you fire at the darn thing. 




- 274 




274 






fchone. 1 £lCed 3lr ' C ° Uld y0 “ ha ”8 °» - I =« 8 o to a 


|UES^ION. That won't be necessary Squadron Leader von Via . , 
^hat I wanted to know goodbye. 4 Leader, you have told me 








A?B*"" lca to tty to 


ssi'fcia, but 


’««i S )‘ iS the ^ the m0 «*• P‘°P.rte°d\ e o d 


El:;- 




Si« ly .riV„g-a»an i t 8 to“k 7/ t"^y ‘re'stdeii” VlV *nd »/ 


Informed us that he was on route to Wright Patterson AFB Dr * Hen ,7.* He 
jsission and would depart on the su, «, c r . ac „ rson AF B on a military 


Wrican Embassy from Dr Henry's home to § let th coatacted the South 
laying in case they needed ^to contact hi « wh .? re he was 


jMenant to us confirming his story. (Slide 9)” 1 raade a sworn 




|*ad photographs taken with us (Slide 10. 11. 12.) 




ttaMlul?! h h 1 ,d°\ l . yPhl0 J,"" e l»*«* the craft 


% Dr. Bill talk about this f baa " able to them. (Slide 


M.o did a drawing of the interior of the craft and the general 


Wr • 


le for hirJse\rWright i pattersoi°AFB 0t081:aph tW ° NASA pa33e3 which 


if^f^T ^ Henry a per8ona^ly nt This 8e ^f^ ° ffider in 


1*° t ogrl ph .“o f S th e Aftu^ .K*” °f bi"!; 0 "/ 0 ^ 


•assage from Wright Pattlrson AFB re^tSv tn°tv ft and a 50 pa « e tele ^ 
fesatxessed how dangerous it would b! to ^ , th ®. recov “y of the UFO. 


he would forward a set of the hi set- P a P e rs but stated 


opy of the telex as soon as he was able. White P hoto e^Ph 3 and a 


#lit«%p^ d w f| w Pf—nt at the retrieval 


pphrtment. (Henry Will speak about this) V ° r Henry at the OSI 






1 




- 275 - 




■ ,.'>51 71 




275 






{ Note distribution to : COSMIC Ops and MAJI Ops. SG } 




28 JULY 1 991 . 
0900 HRS. 




MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD. 


_ FROM: NRO /CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE. PAGE ONE OF THREE. 


STATUS : CLASSIFIED /RESTRICTED . 


~ SUBJECT: SPECIAL SECURITY ADVISORY/BLUE FIRE. 


ATTENTION: Commanders Net. 


— . ROYAL Ops. 


COSMIC Ops . 


MAJ Ops. 


_ MAJI Ops . 


COMINT Ops. 


COMSEC Ops. 


ELINT Ops. 


— - HUMINT Ops. 


AFOSI Nellis Div. 


26th, 64th, 65th, 527th, 


— - and 5021st T.O. Aggressor Sqdn. Cmndrs. 


57th F.W. Cmndr . 


552nd T.O.F. Cmndr. 


_ 554th O.S.W. Cmndr. 


554th C.S.S. Cmndr. 


4440th T.F.T.G. Cmndr. 


4450th T.G. Cmndr. 


4477th TES-R.E. Cmndr. 


37th F.W. Cmndr. 


Red Flag MOC. 


— Dart East MOC. 


Dart South MOC . 


Pahute Mesa MOC. 


— Sally Corridor MOC. 


Groom Lake MOC. 


Dreamland MOC. 


Ground Star MOC. 


Blackjack Team 
Roulette Team 
Aqua Tech SOG. 


Sec. Div. 




- 276 - 








276 








CLASSIFIED. 




PAGE TWO OF THREE. 




RE: SPECIAL SECURITY ADVISORY. EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY. FOR ALL 
SOUTH BASE OPERATIONS AND SPECIAL SECTORS. 




A SHUTDOWN HAS HERE BY BEEN ORDERED FOR ALL SOUTH BASE 
OPERATIONS AND SPECIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS. SPECIAL CONDITION 
PROCEDURES FOR SEQUENCE "BLUE FIRE" ARE NOW IN EFFECT. ALL 
ENLISTED PERSONNEL AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ARE TO BE BRIEFED 
ON A "BLUE FIRE" SCENARIO, ON A "NEED TO KNOW" BASIS ONLY. 


ALL SPECIAL SERVICE DIVISIONS, SPECIAL SCIENCES DIVISIONS 
AND EXECUTIVE SECURITY TEAMS WILL BE UNDER LOCKDOWN CONDITIONS 
OR ON RESTRICTED ROAM L.R.R.P. PROCEDURES. 




ON 31 JULY 1991 AT 2000 HRS. A CIVILIAN ORGANIZED EVENT IS TO 
BE HELD IN THE TOWN OF RACHEL, NEVADA. THE INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE 
ORGANIZED THE EVENT ARE FAMILIAR TO SECURITY TEAM PERSONNEL 
THAT HAVE HAD PRIOR CONTACT WITH PRIMARIES AND / OR THEIR 
SUPPORTERS. PRIMARY SUBJECTS ARE IDENTIFIED AS FOLLOWS: ^ Q(Ji f 


1.NORIO HAYAKAWA / FOUNDER OF ^ -\v> C ^ 


CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE NETWORK ** YVOl*- 




GARDENA, CA. 




» 0 ' W« r '' 


A°' e Alre* st * h 




2. GARY CLARK / AKA; SCHULTZ / FOUNDER OF 
SECRET SAUCER BASE EXPEDITIONS 




!,<•> ^ p 




SANTA MONICA, CA. 




BOTH OF THE SUBJECTS OPERATE THEIR ORGANIZATIONS FROM A POST 
OFFICE BOX IN THE CITY OF GARDENA CALIFORNIA. { PLEASE SEE PRIOR 
SPECIAL ADVISORY NOTIFICATIONS.) 


BOTH SUBJECTS AND THEIR SUPPORT PERSONNEL WILL BE IN ADVISORY 
PERIMETER WITHIN A 48 HR. TIME PERIOD OF THIS NOTICE. ALL AREA 
PERSONNEL ARE TO REMAIN ON ADVISORY ALERT UNTIL 5 AUGUST 0500 
HRS. AND PROCEED WITH CAUTION IF APPROACHED BY ANYONE BELIEVED 
TO BE AFFILIATED WITH THESE GROUPS. THESE SUBJECTS MAY ALSO 
BE ACCOMPANIED BY INDIVIDUALS FROM THE NIPPON TELEVISION NETWORK 
OR THE TOKYO BROADCASTING SERVICE OF JAPAN, IN ADDITION TO 
VARIOUS PRINT MEDIA PERSONNEL FROM VARIOUS ASSIGNMENTS BOTH 
NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL. ALL BASE COMMANDERS AND SECURITY 
TEAM PERSONNEL ARE TO INSTRUCT SUBORDINATES CONCERNED TO REPORT 
ANY HARASSMENT EITHER TO THEMSELVES OR ANY OTHER BASE PERSONNEL 
THAT THEY MAY BECOME AWARE OF. FAILURE TO DO SO IN A TIMELY 
MANNER WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES WITH 
NO EXCEPTIONS. 


THIS EVENT IS TO BE HELD AT "THE LITTLE ALE-INN" FORMERLY, 
KNOWN AS, "RACHELS BAR AND GRILL". MR. AND MRS. TRAVIS HAVE 
GRANTED PERMISSION TO THESE INDIVIDUALS FOR THE USE OF THE 
FACILITIES ON THE EVENING OF 31 JULY 1991. 


ALL BASE SPECIAL OPERATIONS IN SECTORS CONCERNED ARE TO BE 
RESCHEDULED TO AN ASSIGNMENT DATE AFTER 0500 HRS. ON 5 AUGUST. 




- 277 - 






277 










CLASSIFIED. PAGE THREE OF THREE. 


- y 


SPECIAL SECURITY SERVICES ARE HERE BY INSTRUCTED TO COMMENCE 
WITH PROPER PROCUREMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF SPECIAL SECURITY 
ADVISORY SECTIONS AND PRACTICES DURING THIS TIME PERIOD. IT 


- IS EXPECTED THAT MEMBERS OF THESE GROUPS AS WELL AS OTHER FRINGE 
ELEMENTS WILL REMAIN IN AND AROUND THE GENERAL AREAS OF CONCERN 
FOR AS MANY AS A FEW DAYS PRIOR TO, AND FOLLOWING, THIS SCHEDULED 


_ EVENT. 


ALL PERSONNEL BOTH MILITARY AND CIVILIAN WHO ARE BELIEVED 
TO BE OR KNOWN TO BE COMMUNICATING OR CORRESPONDING IN ANY WAY 
OR BY ANY METHOD WILL BE CONSIDERED TO BE IN VIOLATION OF THIS 
SPECIAL SECURITY ADVISORY AND THEREBY CHARGED WITH WILLFUL 
DISREGARD OF A SPECIAL SECURITY ADVISORY AND BE SUBJECT TO 
IMMEDIATE ARREST AND PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATION OF THE NATIONAL 


- SECURITY ACTS. 




NOTE; THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL 
SECURITY OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN DESCRIPTION OF THE 
ESPIONAGE ACT 30 U.S.C.,31 AND 32 AS AMENDED. 


ITS TRANSMISSION OR THE REVELATION OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY 
MANNER TO AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED 
BY LAW. IT MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY 
OTHER THAN UNITED STATES AIR FORCE SPECIAL SECURITY 
SERVICES EXCEPT BY PERMISSION OF THE DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL 
INTELLIGENCE T-2 USAF/NRO. 




END. 






278 








Testimony of Mr. Don Phillips, Lockheed Skunkworks, USAF, and CIA Contractor 


December 2000 




Don Phillips was in the Air Force at Las Vegas Air Force Base during an event when 
UFOs were seen moving at enormous speeds near Mt. Charleston, northwest of Las 
Vegas. In addition, he worked with Kelly Johnson at the Lockheed Skunkworks — 
on design and construction of the U-2 and the SR-71 Blackbird. He testifies that we 
not only have these extraterrestrial devices, but have also achieved tremendous 
technological advances from their study. He states that in the 1950s and 1960s, 
NATO did research into the origin of ET races, and disseminated reports to the 
leaders of various countries. Mr. Phillips further states that there are records and 
filmed documentation of meetings in California in 1954 between ETs and leaders of 
the USA. He lists a few of the technologies we were able to develop because of the 
ETs: computer chips, lasers, night vision, bulletproof vests, and concludes, “Are 
these ET people hostile? Well, if they were hostile, with their weaponry they could 
have destroyed us a long time ago — or could have done some damage.” Mr. 
Phillips now develops technologies that can help eliminate environmental pollutants 
and reduce the need for fossil fuels: energy generation systems that use natural 
energies from planet Earth. 


DP: Mr. Don Phillips SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


DP: So Angels Peak was a classified radar installation. And, it’s, a lot of radar installations, 
as we know them, are up in the middle of no where. We would monitor the aircraft coming from 
Las Vegas into Area 5 1 or whatever passed by. And, it was whatever passed by that became most 
interesting one night, in 1966, to ‘67. That night, I heard a lot of commotion about 1:00 in the 
morning. 


We were at 8,000 feet; the radar domes were at 10,500, approximately. So I decided to get up 
and walked up to the main road, and up near my office. I got to the area where the fellows were 
standing- there was a group of about five people- and they were looking up in the air. And, I 
looked up in the air and saw these objects, lighted objects, moving at tremendous speeds... Right 
at that instant I saw these things making acute angles and traveling, I would estimate 3,000 to 
4,000 miles per hour. And, then immediately making acute turns. I knew that they weren’t 
ours. . .And, then, all of a sudden, they seemed to group, from what would be hundreds of miles in 
the sky to the west. And they came into a circle, rotated into a circle, and then disappeared. And, 
I thought, wow, what a show. So, the security Sergeant happened to be on duty. And, we all 
looked at each other and said, gee, this is really something. And, he said, well, we shouldn’t 
really say anything about this. 


Well, I had a buddy that was chief radar operator named Anthony Kasar. ..He was almost as 
white as a sheet. He took one step down the steps and he looked at me and he said, did you see 
those? And, I said, yeah, we’ve been watching them- some of the fellows have been watching 
them for the last four to five minutes. And, I’ve seen them for a little more than 90 seconds. He 
says, we saw them on the radar screen and we documented them. He says, they are not bogeys. 
They are not apparitions. They are real solid objects. And, of course, they would have to be in 
order to get a fix with radar, the kind of radar we used there, it would have to be a solid 
object. And, it’s not that we tracked them with the radar- they would go in and out of the 
signal and register that way. He finally documented that there were six to seven. The 
speeds that we estimated were also estimated by the radar operators and their scopes. 




279 






SG: What did they estimate? 


DP: They estimated, around, 3,800 to 4,200 miles per hour equivalent, ground speed. These 
things are darting across the sky. First they look like a star. And then they move, in any direction 
or make any kind of a straight line, or just hover. . . . 


These UFOs were huge. And they would just come to a stop and do a 60 degree, 45 degree, 
10 degree turn, after stopping. And, then immediately reverse this action. . . . 


SG: Had you heard of anti-gravity propulsion systems being worked on while you were at 
Lockheed Skunkworks? 


DP: The propulsion system that you are asking about, I heard that it existed. But, the left 
hand never knew what the right hand was doing, and, for good reason. . . . 


We have records from 1954 that were meetings between our own leaders of this country and 
ET s here in California. And, as I understand it from the written documentation, we were asked if 
we would allow them to be here and do research. I have read that our reply was, well, how can 
we stop you, you are so advanced? And, I will say by this camera and this sound, that it was 
President Eisenhower that had this meeting. And, it was on film, sort of like what we are doing 
now. Bringing it up to date, the NATO report gave that there were 12 races. To make a final 
summary, they had to have contacts to go to these races in order to understand who they are, what 
they are doing, and what they could do. ... 


Are these ET people hostile? Well, if they were hostile, with their weaponry they could have 
destroyed us a long time ago, or could have done some damage. . . . 


The reason they crashed is that their guidance mechanism was interrupted by our radar and by 
some equipment that we have. 


Even more validating for me was that one of our contract scientists for our private concern, 
Light City Technologies, Incorporated, worked with these technologies. He worked with a 
couple of those technologies while he was with a very prominent intelligence agency of the 
United States Government. 


The one person that I’ve talked to outside of the military or the government level is SG. And, 
the reason for that is because he makes it the professional approach, which is more in line with 
the way we were in the military. 


About the ET lenses: there were some eyeball coverings that allowed the people inside the 
craft that made the journey across space to see in the minimal light that we know is now present 
during space travel. These lenses magnified light, but also brought in a certain type of clarity. 
And, my reason for mentioning this was that it was Earth doctors and specialists that got them 
into the removal and study of these lenses. 


I think a lot of this has been well documented by Colonel Corso. You know, who was there 
with him? Well, there were a lot of people there with him. But a lot of the things that are said in 
the book by Colonel Corso, I can verify, corroborated by people that I have worked with and do 
work with now. So, I can say what I know about it is very true. The pathway that it took, that’s 
another story. We talk about hidden technologies and why don’t they let people know about it? 
Well, they hide it from the public. Well, hey, there is probably a good reason for some of it. 




280 






The Government didn’t understand it themselves. Being in the Air Force, maybe we didn’t 
fully know what it was. Take those technologies from Roswell, it took a while to figure out how 
they worked before we knew what to make from it and then how to get it into industry, how can it 
benefit the people. . . . 


I learned one thing from an associate scientist - somebody for whom I have the greatest, the 
highest respect - who was with the CIA. Fie says the first thing we want to determine is who is 
turning the wheels on any project-this is what I did when I was with the CIA. 


Y ou see, who is turning the wheels? What is the motivation? Why is it being done? I asked, 
right after we first talked, why is Dr. Steven Greer doing this? I’ve done my research- maybe a 
lot of it. And, I’ve watched what’s happening. And, you’ve been very dedicated to what you are 
doing, and professional. That’s why I am here tonight. That is why I am speaking with you. . . 


Well, SG, one of the purposes for founding this technology corporation that I did in 1998 was 
to bring forth these technologies that can help get rid of the toxins — that can clean the air, that 
help get rid of the need for so much fossil fuel or help it become more efficient. Yes, it is time. I 
can tell you, personally, that it has already started. And I can prove what we have come up with. 
We can prove it. . . 




Testimony of Captain Bill Uhouse, USMC (ret.) 


October 2000 


Bill Uhouse served 1 0 years in the Marine Corps as a fighter pilot, and four years with 
the Air Force at Wright-Patterson AFB as a civilian doing flight-testing of exotic 
experimental aircraft. Later, for the next 30 years, he worked for defense contractors as 
an engineer of antigravity propulsion systems: on flight simulators for exotic aircraft — 
and on actual flying discs. He testifies that that the first disc they tested was the re- 
engineered ET craft that crashed in Kingman, Arizona in 1958. He further testifies that 
the ET’s presented a craft to the US government; this craft was taken to Area 51, which 
was just being constructed at the time, and the four ET’s that accompanied the craft 
were taken to Los Alamos. Mr. Uhouse’s specialty was the flight deck and the 
instruments on the flight deck — he understood the gravitational field and what it took 
to get people trained to experience antigravity. He actually met several times with an 
ET that helped the physicists and engineers with the engineering of the craft. 




I spent 10 years in the Marine Corps, and four years working with the Air Force as a civilian 
doing experimental testing on aircraft since my Marine Corps days. I was a pilot in the service, 
and a fighter pilot; [I] fought in . . . after the latter part of WWII and the Korean War Conflict, I 
was discharged as a Captain in the Marine Corps. 


I didn’t start working on flight simulators until about - well the year was 1954, in September. 
After I got out of the Marine Corps, I took a job with the Air Force at Wright Patterson doing 
experimental flight-testing on various different modifications of aircraft. 


While I was at Wright Patterson, I was approached by an individual who — and I’m not 
going to mention his name — [wanted] to determine if I wanted to work in an area on new 
creative devices. Okay? And, that was a flying disc simulator. What they had done: they had 
selected several of us, and they reassigned me to A-Link Aviation, which was a simulator 
manufacturer. At that time they were building what they called the C-l IB, and F-102 simulator, 




281 






B-47 simulator, and so forth. They wanted us to get experienced before we actually started work 
on the flying disc simulator, which I spent 30-some years working on. 


I don’t think any flying disc simulators went into operation until the early 1960s — around 
1962 or 1963. The reason why I am saying this is because the simulator wasn’t actually 
functional until around 1958. The simulator that they used was for the extraterrestrial craft they 
had, which is a 30-meter one that crashed in Kingman, Arizona, back in 1953 or 1952. That’s the 
first one that they took out to the test flight. 


This ET craft was a controlled craft that the aliens wanted to present to our government — 
the U.S.A. It landed about 15 miles from what used to be an army airbase, which is now a 
defunct army base. But that particular craft, there were some problems with: number one - 
getting it on the flatbed to take it up to Area 51. They couldn’t get it across the dam because of 
the road. It had to be barged across the Colorado River at the time, and then taken up Route 93 
out to Area 51, which was just being constructed at the time. There were four aliens aboard that 
thing, and those aliens went to Los Alamos for testing. They set up Los Alamos with a particular 
area for those guys, and they put certain people in there with them — people that were 
astrophysicists and general scientists — to ask them questions. The way the story was told to me 
was: there was only one alien that would talk to any of these scientists that they put in the lab 
with them. The rest wouldn’t talk to anybody, or even have a conversation with them. You 
know, first they thought it was all ESP or telepathy, but you know, most of that is kind of a joke 
to me, because they actually speak — maybe not like we do — but they actually speak and 
converse. But there was only one who would [at Los Alamos]. 


The difference between this disc, and other discs that they had looked at was that this one was 
a much simpler design. The disc simulator didn’t have a reactor, [but] we had a space in it that 
looked like the reactor that wasn’t the device we operated the simulator with. We operated it with 
six large capacitors that were charged with a million volts each, so there were six million volts in 
those capacitors. They were the largest capacitors ever built. These particular capacitors, they’d 
last for 30 minutes, so you could get in there and actually work the controls and do what you had 
to — to get the simulator, the disc to operate. 


So, it wasn’t that simple, because we only had 30 minutes. Okay? But, in the simulator 
you’ll notice that there are no seat belts. Right? It was the same thing with the actual craft — no 
seat belts. You don’t need seat belts, because when you fly one of these things upside down, 
there is no upside down like in a regular aircraft — you just don’t feel it. There’s a simple 
explanation for that: you have your own gravitational field right inside the craft, so if you are 
flying upside down — to you — you are right side up. I mean, it’s just really simple, if people 
would look at it. I was inside the actual alien craft for a start-up... 


There weren’t any windows. The only way we had any visibility at all was done with 
cameras or video-type devices. [See the testimony of Mark McClandlish. SG] My specialty was 
the flight deck and the instruments on the flight deck. I knew about the gravitational field and 
what it took to get people trained. 


Because the disc has its own gravitational field, you would be sick or disoriented for about 
two minutes after getting in, after it was cranked up. It takes a lot of time to become used to it. 
Because of the area and the smallness of it, just to raise your hand becomes complicated. You 
have to be trained — trained with your mind, to accept what you are going to actually feel and 
experience. 




282 






Just moving about is difficult, but after a while you get used to it and you do it — it’s simple. 
You just have to know where everything is, and you [have] to understand what’s going to happen 
to your body. It’s no different than accepting the g-forces when you are flying an aircraft or 
coming out of a dive. It’s a whole new ball game. 


Each engineer that had anything to do with the design was part of the start-up crew. We 
would have to verify all the equipment that we put in — be sure it [worked] like it [was] 
supposed to, etc. 


I’m sure our crews have taken these craft out into space. I’m saying it probably took a while 
to train enough of the people, over a sufficient time period. The whole problem with the disc is 
that it is so exacting in its design and so forth. It can’t be used like we use aircraft today, with 
dropping bombs and having machine guns in the wings. 


The design is so exacting, that you can’t add anything — it’s got to be just right. There’s a 
big problem in the design of where things are put. Say, where the center of the aircraft is, and 
that type of thing. Even the fact that we raised it three feet so the taller guys could get in — the 
actual ship was extended back to its original configuration, but it has to be raised. 


We had meetings, and I ended up in a meeting with an alien. I called him J-ROD — of 
course, that’s what they called him. I don’t know if that was his real name or not, but that’s the 
name the linguist gave him. I did draw a sketch, before I left, of him in a meeting. I provided it 
to some people and that was my impression of what I saw. The alien used to come in with [Dr. 
Edward] Teller and some of the other guys, occasionally, to handle questions that maybe we’d 
have. You know? But you have to understand that everything was specific to the group. If it 
wasn’t specific to the group, you couldn’t talk about it. It was on a need-to-know basis. And [the 
ET] he’d talk. He would talk, but he’d sound just like as if you spoke — he’d sound like you. 
You know, he’s like a parrot, but he’d try and answer your question. A lot of times he’d have a 
hard time understanding, because if you didn’t put it on paper and explain yourself, half the time 
he couldn’t give you a good answer. 


The preparation we had before meeting this alien was, basically, going through all of the 
different nationalities in the world. Then they got into going into other forms of life, even down 
to animals and that type of thing. And. . .this J-ROD — his skin was pinkish, but a little bit rough 
— that kind of stuff; not horrible-looking, you know — or to me, he wasn’t horrible-looking. 


Some of the guys who were in the particular group that I was in — they never even made it. 
You know, when they gave you the psychological questions, I just answered them the way I felt 
and I had no problem. That’s what they wanted to know — if you’d become upset — but it never 
bothered me. It didn’t amount to much. 


So basically, the alien was only giving engineering advice and science advice. For example, I 
performed the calculations but needed more help. . .1 spoke of a book that — well it’s not a book; 
it’s a big assembly with various divisions dealing with gravitational technology, and the key 
elements are in there, but all the information wasn’t there. Even our top mathematicians couldn’t 
figure some of this stuff out, so the alien would assist. Sometimes you’d get into a spot where 
you [would] try and try and try, and it wouldn’t work. And that’s when he’d [the alien] come in. 
They would tell him to look at this and see what we did wrong. 


Over the last 40 years or so, not counting the simulators — I’m talking about actual craft — 
there are probably two or three-dozen, and various sizes that we built. 




283 






I don’t know much about the [ET] ones that they brought here. I know about that one [craft] 
out of Kingman but that’s about it. And, I know the company that hauled it out of there — who is 
out here now — but. . . But, there’s one that operates with certain chemicals. 


1 think these triangles that people are seeing are two or three 30-meter craft, that are in the 
center of it [the triangle]. And, the outside perimeter — well you could put anything you want, as 
long as these particular ones meet the design criteria, and they’ll operate. 


You know, there were certain reasons for the secrecy. I could understand that; it was no 
different than the first atomic bomb that they built. But they are getting so far ahead now with 
aircraft design. And, like I told you gentlemen earlier — that by 2003, most of this stuff will be 
out for everybody to look at. Maybe not the way that everybody expects it, but in some manner 
they determine... appropriate to show everybody. You know, a big surprise. The reason why 1 
said that is because the document I signed ends in 2003 and I’m not the only one who signed 
those. 


But, that gravitational manual — if you ever get one of these volumes of documents, you’d 
be on top of the world. You’d know everything. 


[See the testimony of Mark McCandlish that verifies human-made antigravity craft and also 
the use of cameras instead of windows for imaging. SGJ 


Testimony of Lieutenant Colonel John Williams 


September 2000 


Colonel Williams entered the Air Force in 1964 and became a rescue helicopter pilot 
in Vietnam. He has an electrical engineering degree and was in charge of all the 
construction projects for the Military Air Command. During his time in the military 
he knew that there was a facility inside of Norton Air Force Base in California that 
no one was to know about. He heard that there was a UFO craft stored there and that 
people such as certain Senators including Bob Dole had visited the facility. Colonel 
Williams also relates another story that his father told him: One time attending a 
dinner party he had a conversation with a high-level RAND official who told him 
that the government was spending more money on antigravity devices than any other 
project in the history of this country. 


JW: Ft. Col. John Williams SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


JW: There was one facility at Norton Air Force Base that was close hold- not even the wing 
commander there could know what was going on. During that time period it was always rumored 
by the pilots that that was a cover for in fact the location of one UFO craft. The reason for that 
location was that folks could come out, land at Norton, play golf, be part of a golf tournament and 
so forth and during that process could go by the facility and actually see the UFO. But I was 
never allowed in that area when I was there at Norton Air Force Base. . . . 


[See the testimony of Mark McCandlish which establishes that indeed a UFO was stored at 
this facility at Norton AFB. SG] 


SG: Y ou were able to validate that it existed? 




284 






JW: That’s correct because I was responsible for that base’s facilities from 1981-82. 


SG: What kind of VIPs would be put in and out of there that might have seen these UFOs? 




JW: It can actually be senators. In fact, it’s my understanding that Bob Dole was at that 
facility. It’s also possible that back in the early ‘50s that Eisenhower actually visited that 
facility... 


During a dinner party with a very, very close friend, a RAND employee was invited. This is 
located in the Ventura area, which was near their RAND operation. This story impacted my 
father and he relayed it many times to me. He said that during that party after several drinks this 
RAND official said that the government was spending more money on antigravity than any other 
project in the history of this country. Therefore he believed at that time that we had actually 
developed operational antigravity systems. That spending would probably have been started 
shortly after World War II, I would think. That this would be an ongoing effort for many years. 


I basically understand that the person who relayed this information was at a high level there 
at RAND Corporation. ... 




Testimony of Mr. Don Johnson 


December 2000 


Mr. Johnson was putting himself through college working at Century Graphics in 
1971/72. Part of his job was to run blueprints through a large printing machine. 
Century Graphics used to get jobs from various military electronics firms such as 
Lockheed, Litton, Hughes and RCA. While he had a low clearance, there were times 
when his assistance was needed on top secret documents. In one case he was working 
on a lithograph negative of the routes for all the American and Russian subs. In his 
testimony he states that he also worked on a huge electronic diagram from Hughes- 
Suma Corporation. In the center of the diagram in a large rectangle it said “antigravity 
chamber.” When he completed his work he turned to the man training him showing 
him the verbiage. This man told him that he was not supposed to be working on that 
and for him to put it back and forget about it. 




Testimony of A. H., Boeing Aerospace 


December 2000 


A.H. is a person who has gained significant information from inside the UFO 
extraterrestrial groups within our government, military, and civilian companies. He has 
friends at the NSA, CIA, NASA, JPL, ONI, NRO, Area 51, the Air Force, Northrup, 
Boeing, and others. He used to work at Boeing as a surface technician. He was 
introduced to four-star General Curtis Lemay and one day went to his house in Newport 
Beach, CA and spoke with him about this subject. Lemay confirmed the ETC crash at 
Roswell. AH’s NSA contact told him that Henry Kissinger, George Bush as well as 
Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev were all aware of the ET subject. His CIA 
contact told him that the USAF had shot down some of these spacecraft. A friend of 
AH’s who worked at Boeing was part of crash recovery and personally saw and carried 
ET bodies. AH says that a group in the FBI discovered that radar testing was causing 
interference with some of the ETV’s and that this was what was causing so many 




285 






crashes. He also says that there are underground bases testing and maintaining 


extraterrestrial technology in Utah (reachable only by air), Enzo California, 


Lancaster/Palmdale California, Edwards AFB in California, March AFB, Eglan AFB in 


Florida, London England, and many other locations. 


AH: A. H. SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


AH: . . .And I asked Curtis LaMay and 1 said Curt, when you were in the Air Force out of the 
100 percent of the sightings [of UFOs] that came into the Air Force how many of them remained 
not identified? And he said out of the 100 percent that came in only 35 percent of them could not 
be identified. And I asked well, why couldn’t they have been identified. And he said because the 
craft were too damn fast. We can’t catch them. In fact, he used some foul language in there too 
in his explanation. 


And then 1 asked him about the Roswell crash, if that really occurred. And he looked over at 
me and he shook his head, yes, that it did occur. And I said that I was particularly interested in the 
strange writings that were found inside. I asked if they were ever deciphered. And he said as far 
as he understood they were not deciphered when he was in office. . .Then Curtis LaMay started to 
open up and talk about Roswell and the crash that occurred. And he told me that he was aware 
that it wasn’t ours, it wasn’t the military’s, the Air Force or the Army or the Navy, and that it was 
a highly strange vehicle that crashed. . . . 


And by the way, Majestic 12 is real. MJ12 did exist. But it does not exist today. The name 
was changed. The positions are still the same. Henry Kissinger is very knowledgeable about 
what’s going on. Henry Kissinger was in the loop, I was told. 


SG: Who told you this? 


AH: A friend of mine who worked at the NSA [National Security Agency] told me this. He 
saw Henry Kissinger’s name on documents. He saw George Bush’s name on some of the 
documents. He was made aware of what’s going on. About 1978 Reagan was fully briefed on 
the alien presence. Reagan told Mikhail Gorbachev of Russia about 75 percent of what’s going 
on. And then Gorbachev became very, very close to us. ... 


A CNN reporter in Washington, D.C., the second time that Gorbachev came to America, was 
able to interview Gorbachev and his wife. When they got out on the street they drove the security 
detail up the wall. And a CNN reporter asked Gorbachev ‘do you think we should get rid of all 
our nuclear weapons?’ And his wife stepped in and she said, no, I don’t think we should get rid 
of all our nuclear weapons because of alien spacecraft. 


Now CNN put this story on for the half hour, on CNN headline news; I heard this and I 
jumped up and put a bla nk tape in to record the next half-hour. Well, that story disappeared and 
you know who intercepted that. It was the CIA that got involved with that, because I know that 
they were monitoring CNN and all international headlines at that time. They squashed that, but I 
heard it. And this tells me that my information is correct about Ronald Reagan, from my NSA 
source. The secrecy is just total overkill as far as I’m concerned. And the Congress needs to 
know about this information. . . . 


The CIA agent, Brett Merrill, told me that he had dealt with the United States Air Force 
regarding missiles to try to shoot these down, when they come into our airspace. He told me that 
he was aware of the situation and it’s extremely classified, but he was aware of what was going 




286 






on. He was a national intelligence agent. He said that we hit several of them in Nevada over Ely, 
Nevada, and other portions of New Mexico, near Albuquerque. 


SG: Did he indicate what time frame these things happened? 


AH: This was in the late 60s and 70s. . . 


Y es, I have. I met a gentleman who was in the Army who was involved with several crash 
recoveries when he was in the CID. In 1947 when he was inducted in the United States Army 
several of his friends were in the CIC, counter intelligence, and they became very close to one 
another. And he handpicked a friend of mine that worked at Boeing Aircraft Company in Long 
Beach to become a part of ET crash recovery/ retrieval in northern New Mexico. 


He saw some of the aliens and witnessed the craft guarded this crashed disc that had crashed 
and they gave him an Ml carving rifle to guard against anybody who tried to get close to it. And 
they were given orders to shoot anybody without authorization. They recalled him on several 
other crashes. They had to fly him with blackened out windows to several of the crash sites. . . . 


My friend had seen personally the dead aliens. They had dark almond-shaped eyes, a rather 
large head- a little bit larger than a human head. Their bodies were about the size of about a nine- 
year-old child. They had four fingers, no thumb. He told me that they all looked like they came 
out of a mold, because they all looked the same. And their mouths were just a small slit. 


They had real small ears, no hair on the head, just really strange looking to him. He thought 
they were probably part of genetic research. But the technology that he saw in the craft could not 
be of human origin because of the fiber optics that were found inside. And some of the slide 
switches that they had inside the craft we didn’t have and nobody else on Earth would have that 
type of technology. ...The 1949 crash was a rather large craft and the people inside were a little 
bit taller. They were about 5 ’8” tall. They kind of looked like the ancient race around Palestine, 
probably about 3,000 BC. 


He told me that he picked up one of these aliens and put it onboard one of the jeeps. And he 
said that it felt like it weighed only about 45 pounds at most, maybe 40. And they put them in 
body bags and took them to Wright Patterson Air Force base at the time. Later they started taking 
some of them to Colorado and northern New Mexico and then later on to Area 51 in the late 
1960s. All crash debris and technology and anything that had to do with the alien connected 
phenomenon, all went to Area 5 1 after that date. . . . 


They found out that the radar testing in New Mexico was the cause of a lot of them that were 
crashing. When they would get too close to high powered transmitters they would interfere with 
their guidance control and they would just crash. The other craft that crashed we had shot them 
down with our military weapons. 


One of the things that I do remember him telling me is that there is another alien group that 
looks a lot like the human race, and they are called the Orange. . . . 


But he did tell me that he worked on the craft to back engineer them. He’s aware of their 
existence. He knows that I met the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Lemay. He told me 
several times of the testing that took place at Area 51, that some of them come up behind the 
mountain. And they just blank out and disappear and then they appear about 15, 20 miles away 
within about 20 seconds and just reappear. And they do that back and forth . . . 




287 






SG: These are made by humans? 


AH: No, these are the real things. These are the craft that he has been working on. This is 
our military testing these ET vehicles up at Area 51... 


He was working for Northrop. Directly for Northrop. He was not working for the military. 
He was receiving his paycheck from Northrop. 


SG: So Northrop has an involvement with Area 5 1 . 


AH: Oh, yes. So does Lockheed Martin, Boeing Aircraft. Boeing does trucking for Area 
51. Also Hughes is involved. Most of the major defense contractors have something to do with 
Area 51. Boeing trucks for Area 51. I do know that for sure. I found that out from a friend at 
Boeing that told me that they were hiring up there for trucking for some of the military sites. And 
I found out from him that he had personally gone onto Area 5 1 , escorted to Area 5 1 , from the 
main highway. 


This witness is still alive. In fact, he knows where the aliens are originating from. As far as 
he understands there is an underground area there and there are a lot of extraterrestrial debris 
down below Area 5 1 and stored in some sort of a containment area. But he has never seen any 
extraterrestrials at Area 5 1 walking around and conversing with anybody. He just saw the craft 
and the technology that they’re trying to extract from these vehicles to incorporate that 
technology into our fighters and possibly some of our space programs. 


They have developed laser technology and sound wave defense mechanisms from studying 
these ET craft. They can use sound waves to blow up tanks and buildings. And some of the laser 
technology came from these craft he told me about. And I also found out that they are moving a 
lot of the personnel and some of the equipment and some of the extraterrestrial technology 
equipment and craft to a base up in Utah. . . 


[I have heard from other deep insiders that this is true and that the most important facility 
now is totally underground and in Utah, accessible only by air. SG] 


Project Red Light is a program to test these vehicles and extract as much information as 
possible from the alien connected projects to find out how these things operate. They want to gain 
as much information for our fighters and bombers and for our space connected projects. I was 
told by people who were in the Army and the Air Force and people that worked at Area 51, all of 
whom corroborate what was going on regarding Project Red Light. And Project Red Light is still 
continuing as of this day. 


So, Northrop hired him to go up there and help the cause up at Area 5 1 to try to find out how 
these things work. And I believe that he started in 1980. And he left there about 1997. 


And by the way, Project Red Light and Project Grudge, they are all intermixed. The director 
of Project Blue Book, Robert Friend, told me this. He was fully aware of Project Red Light and 
Project Grudge/ Blue Book Report No. 13 was written by him. Robert Friend used to work at 
Fairchild in Redondo Beach on Aviation and Rosecranz. We talked for about an hour on the 
phone - he was also reluctant to talk to me about the phenomenon until I told him that I met 
General Lemay, and of course the CIA and FBI agents. 




288 






And so then he started to open up and talk to me about UFOs. I asked him about some of the 
crash debris that were taken to Wright Patterson Air Force Base after the Roswell crash. Fie told 
me that yes, some of the debris and the bodies were taken to Wright Patterson Air Force Base in 
Dayton, Ohio, and some of the other stuff was taken to a base in Florida. And that shocked me 
because I never heard anything about a base in Florida. . . 


Fie said that we’re trying to get a lid on this to try to minimize the sightings and quell the 
news media and the witnesses that are reporting these sightings to the news media. The Air Force 
wanted to push this thing under the rug and continue to research it and just get a handle on it. Fie 
confirmed that the Air Force wanted to steer the news media off on some crazy idea that these 
sightings were created by college pranks and balloons and meteorological problems. . . 


What he told me regarding the security ramifications were that if their military personnel 
talked about this they could be courtmartialed or at least threatened to be courtmartialed to get 
him to back down. Other intimidations would be to hold their paychecks back, transfer them to 
other bases where a lot of people would not want to go to, like Alaska. 


My NS A contact was in the Army. The NSA is a part of the Army and he was in advanced 
intelligence gathering. Fie had a top secret umbra clearance. Fie trained at the NSA, at Fort 
Meade, MD. And then they transferred him to a satellite monitoring station. Fie received several 
transmissions from the Pentagon and from other satellite monitoring stations of the NSA that they 
were tracking ETVS [Extraterrestrial Vehicles]... We’ve intercepted many of their signals during 
the 60s... 


But Carter was largely left out of the loop — the control group didn’t trust the guy for some 
reason. They were afraid that he would come out and make blanketed statements to the news 
media and they just didn’t trust him. They left him out of the loop . . . 


This NSA witness entered in 1974 and left the military, the NSA, in about 1985. Fie said that 
Flenry Kissinger was involved with the study group back in the 50s to study the ramifications of 
this information, and to determine what would happen if the information was leaked through a 
credible source. They were to do a study and pass off classified information to certain outside 
study groups such as the Rand Corporation and other think tanks of this nature. 


Basically, these projects were controlled by the Majestic 12 group, which is no longer called 
MJ12. I’m trying to find out the new name of this group. My contact that worked at Area 51 
knows the name of the group, but he’s refusing to tell me the name. Basically it’s an oversight 
group intermingled with the National Security Council and the National Security Planning Group 
in Washington, D.C. There is a group called the National Security Planning Group that oversees 
everything. And Majestic 12 is intermingled with these people, the National Security Planning 
Group. 


They have full control. They alert the President of what’s taking place and he either 
authorizes or just says, hey, you guys go at it. They have full control. They have no 
Congressional oversight whatsoever. They answer to nobody, except for the President of the 
United States. But they are trying to push even that aside, away from the President, from what I 
understand. 


The Presidents no longer have that much control over these groups anymore. It’s like a 
separate entity... and the President is losing control. He’s just absolutely starting to lose control 
over this. That’s why Carter was not brought into the loop. . . 




289 






The NSA also collaborates back and forth with the NRO, the National Reconnaissance 
Organization, regarding tracking and intercepts, along with NORAD, the Air Force and the 
Army. They are all in on it and it’s all connected with the top secret group called MAJI Control. 


SG: What did he tell you about MAJI Control and how that operates? 


AH: MAJI Control is controlled by the Office of Naval Intelligence. It’s a top secret 
collection group, like the Central Intelligence Agency and the NSA. In fact, the ONI is just like 
the CIA. It’s a top secret organization within the Navy. It’s similar to the NSA and the CID. It’s 
all encrypted information. They have agents out in the field, just like the CIA, collecting 
information. It’s all very, very top secret. . . 


Most of the craft operate on antigravity and electro-gravitic propulsion. We are just about at 
the conclusion state right now regarding antigravity. I would give it maybe about 1 5 years and we 
will have cars that will levitate using this type of technology. We’re doing it up at Area 51 right 
now. That’s some of the stuff that my buddy worked on up at Area 51 with Northrup, who lives 
now in Pahrump, Nevada. We’re flying anti-gravity vehicles up there and in Utah right now. . . 


For example, the information that we have managed to collect regarding the face on Mars, 
which I know for a fact is real, would have a great impact. I have another contact at NASA, JPL 
that I haven’t mentioned. I can’t mention too much about it because he is still working there. 
This person that I know is very high up in NASA. He said they know it’s a face. They know that 
it was carved by somebody other than us. In an imaging area, they know for a fact that the face 
on Mars is real and that it was not made by windstorms or trick of lighting or anything like that. 
They know for a fact that the face on Mars was made from an extraterrestrial race that came here 
to Earth about 45,000 years BC. . . . 




Testimony of British Police Officer Alan Godfrey (retired) 


September 2000 


Officer Alan Godfrey is a retired police officer who served in the West Yorkshire 
Metropolitan Police in England from 1975 to 1984. On November 28 th 1980, he and 
five other officers witnessed a UFO. He saw a diamond shaped object about 75 feet 
away hovering just five feet above the ground and he estimates it to be about 20 feet 
wide and about 14 feet tall. The bottom half appeared to be rotating and the top was 
stationary and it did not make any noise. Months after reporting this incident, he started 
being harassed. He was transferred 50 miles away and was eventually barred from 
entering his own police station. Contraband drugs were placed in his locker. 


I . . . was in a police patrol car heading toward Bumleigh, on the A646. I looked up the main 
road which I was traveling on, and I saw approximately 150 yards up in front of me an object. 
My first reaction was that it was a double-decker bus. Nevertheless, I headed toward this object. 
As I got close to it- within about 25 yards of the object - and what I saw quite baffled me. 


I thought one of these hot air balloons had come down. Then I thought, it’s five in the 
morning. Then I realized that this object was actually hovering off the ground; as I sat in the 
police car I could actually see under the object. It was hovering about five feet off the ground. 




290 






The span of it was taking much of the road up, so it was about 20 feet wide, because the road’s 
pretty narrow just there. And over the top I could see the road lamps, so I’m estimating the 
height of the object was about 14 feet. 


I sat about 25 yards away looking at it. I put on the patrol car’s blue lights, headlights, hazard 
lights, anything you can think of. This was totally blocking the road. It was diamond in shape. It 
appeared to be in two halves joined together. The bottom half appeared to be rotating, the top 
half looked like it was stationary, and it also I thought it had dark windows or panels that went all 
the way around. 


I was absolutely gobsmacked. The bushes and the trees that lined the road were shaking very, 
very violently, as though there was a strong wind blowing but my car was apparently stationary. 
I didn’t feel any vibrations in the car, I didn’t hear any noise, it wasn’t making any noise, not that 
I could hear. . .It’s totally nothing like an aircraft. You see, aircraft fly, don’t they, unless you’re a 
jump jet. This thing was actually hovering and it was moving and I suppose it comes in the 
classic UFO, unidentified flying object, status. 


As time went on and I became aware of the other police officers’ sightings, it was a great 
relief to me. You can’t imagine what a great relief that was to me, because you can understand 
being a policeman and what my colleagues’ reactions within that small community might have 
been... There was a form, believe this or believe it not, actually in our police station, on how to 
report a UFO sighting to the Ministry of Defense. . . 


I was absolutely amazed at what happened after that. My life just turned upside down in an 
instant. From being a happy go lucky chap, within a space of six months I was put through hell 
and turned into one of the most horrible persons you could ever imagine coming across. Purely 
through harassment, stress, victimization, you name it, I had it. . . 


Testimony of Mr. Gordon Creighton, Former British Foreign Service Official 


September 2000 


Mr. Creighton spent many years in the British Foreign Service. He spent 10 years in 
China and in 1941 he saw a UFO while at the Embassy. In broad daylight he saw a 
disc-shaped, silent UFO with a blue white light on top flying very fast. In 1953 he 
spent some time with the Military Defense in Whitehall and worked on the floor 
underneath a department, Air Technical, dealing with UFO’s. He says that a UFO 
landed on the estate of Lord Mountbatten in the south of England near Southampton. 


...We now know that Stalin was quicker off the start than the Americans were. Stalin 
became aware, at a very early date, in ‘47, after the UFO crashed in New Mexico. Stalin was 
collecting reports from all over the place. And, one day he called in their top astronomer and 
showed him all these reports. And, Stalin said to him, sit down there, look at that, and what do 
you think about it? And, apparently he said, well, can I take it home and look at it? Stalin said, 
no, you are going to sit here, in the Kremlin, until I get your answer. So, apparently he gave him 
the answer. He said, yes, it’s not of this world. It is not of this Earth, it’s extraterrestrial. . . 


I asked J. Allen Hynek, my good friend, what do you think caused all these UFO events to 
start? Assuming they’ve always been there, but, what caused this great interest after ‘47? And, I 
remember he thought for a moment and he said, well, obviously, the atom bomb. If you think of, 
if you accept the multi-dimensional theory, it is highly likely that we’ve done a hell of a lot of 




291 






damage. In some areas we might have done even more damage there than we did here. And, if 
you kick a beehive, you shouldn’t be surprised if bees come out and look at you. And if you’ve 
hurt them they might even sting you. And, so, my answer is that this is an enormously 
complicated problem. 


If he man carries on as he is, he is going to destroy himself. Man could have survived forever 
with bows and arrows. He’s not going to exist forever with this present technology. One or the 
other is going. 


I am certain that measures have been taken by agencies to terminate people who appear to be 
inconvenient or troublesome through knowing too much. . .Kennedy may have been engaged in a 
bit of a struggle with the CIA in trying to get more information on the UFO subject. And, the 
story goes, that he might have been thinking that he ought to take it up with the Russians. Now, 
if he were thinking of taking it up with the Russians, the CIA may have thought this was a 
premature and very dangerous thing to do, and that might account for his termination. . . 




Testimony of Sergeant Karl Wolfe, US Air Force 


September 2000 


Karl Wolfe was in the Air Force for 41/2 years beginning in January 1964. He had a 
top secret crypto clearance and worked with the tactical air command at Langley 
AFB in Virginia. While working at a NSA facility he was shown photographs taken 
by the Lunar Orbiter of the moon that showed detailed artificial structures. These 
photos were taken prior to the Apollo landing in 1969. 


So I was asked to go over to this facility on Langley Air Force Base, where the NSA was 
bringing in the information from the lunar orbiter ... As I walked in, there were people from other 
countries, a lot of foreign people from other countries in civilian clothes, with interpreters with 
them, with security badges hanging around their neck. . . . 


And they were very quiet, very reserved, and there was a very peculiar pall hanging over 
them. They had a very concerned demeanor. . . 


We walked over to one side of the lab and he said, by the way, we’ve discovered a base on 
the backside of the moon. I said, whose? What do you mean, whose? He said, yes, we’ve 
discovered a base on the backside of the moon. And at that point I became frightened and I was a 
little terrified, thinking to myself that if anybody walks in the room now, I know we’re in 
jeopardy, we’re in trouble, because he shouldn’t be giving me this information. 


I was fascinated by it, but I also knew that he was overstepping a boundary that he shouldn’t. 
Then he pulled out one of these mosaics and showed this base on the moon, which had geometric 
shapes- there were towers, there were spherical buildings, there were very tall towers and things 
that looked somewhat like radar dishes but they were large structures. . . 


This fellow and I were the same rank; I think he was very distressed. He had the same pallor 
and demeanor as the scientists outside the room; they were just as concerned as he was. And he 
needed to discuss it with somebody. . . 


Some of the structures are half a mile in size. So they’re huge structures. And they’re all 
different sized structures in different photographs. Some of the shapes, as I said, were - some of 




292 






the buildings were very tall, thin structures. 1 don’t know how tall they were but they must be 
very tall. They were angular shots with shadows. There were spherical and domed buildings that 
were very large. They stood out very clearly, they were large objects. It’s interesting because I 
tried to relate them in my own mind to structures here on Earth, and they don’t compare to 
anything that you see here in scale and structure. . . 


1 didn’t want to look at it any longer than that, because I felt that my life was in jeopardy. Do 
you understand what I’m saying? I would have loved to have looked at it longer, I would have 
loved to have had copies. I would love to have said more about it, discussed it more, but I knew I 
couldn’t. I knew the young fellow who was sharing this was really, really overstepping his 
bounds at that point. 


I felt that he just needed somebody to talk to. He hadn’t discussed it, couldn’t discuss it, and 
he wasn’t doing it for any ulterior motive other than the fact that I think he had the weight of this 
thing on him and it was distressing to him. . . 


I knew that I couldn’t go anyplace for at least five years without telling the State Department 
where I was, after I left the military. 


[See the testimony of Merle Shane McDow and others who had similar restrictions. SG] 


Any time I traveled I had to notify and get permission, even in the United States. They had to 
know where I was all the time. As an example, if we went to Vietnam there was always someone 
there with us, with a gun, ready to annihilate us basically if we should fall into the hands of the 
enemy. They didn’t want the enemy to get us; we would be killed instead. 


So we knew we were operating under these sort of conditions. Your life was in jeopardy all 
the time, should you fall into the wrong hands. So we were aware of that. I was told when I left 
that I would be investigated on a regular basis to make sure that I wasn’t involved in any peculiar 
activities that didn’t suit the government’s needs. . . . 


Testimony of Donna Hare 


November 2000 


Donna Hare had a secret clearance while working for NASA contractor, Philco Ford. 


She testifies that she was shown a photo of a picture with a distinct UFO. Her 
colleague explained that it was his job to airbrush such evidence of UFOs out of 
photographs before they were released to the public. She also heard information from 
other Johnson Space Center employees that some astronauts had seen extraterrestrial 
craft and that when some of them wanted to speak out about this they were threatened. 


My name is Donna Hare. During ‘70 and ‘71 I worked in Building 8 of NASA for a 
contractor, Philco Ford. They changed their name several times. Over the years, I worked in the 
photo lab and in different areas of the company on and offsite. 


During the ‘70’s, I don’t know the exact date, I walked into the photo lab, into one of the 
restricted areas- I did have a secret clearance. I walked into a restricted area which was not my 
company- it was the NASA photo lab. And there they developed the film from the moon and 
satellite pictures, everything that’s done by NASA. 




293 






One of the gentlemen I had been friends with and I still talk to occasionally pointed my 
attention to one area of this mosaic. It was one panel of a mosaic which are several panels put 
together to form a larger picture. I believe they were satellite pictures but I’m not sure. They 
were aerial looking down. And I said, this is really interesting. 


He explained everything. And then, with a smile on his face he said, look over there. And I 
looked. And in one of the photo panels I saw a round white dot. And at the time it was very 
crisp, very sharp lines on it. And I said to him what is that? Is that a dot on the emulsion? And 
then he’s grinning and he says dots on the emulsion don’t leave round shadows on the ground. 
And there was a round shadow at the correct angle with the sun shining on the trees. I looked at 
him and I was pretty startled because I had worked out there several years and had never seen 
anything like this, never heard of anything like this. And I said, is this a UFO? And he’s smiling 
at me and he says, I can’t tell you that. I can’t tell you that. What I knew he meant was, it was [a 
UFO] but he couldn’t tell me. So I said, what are you going to do with this information? And he 
said, well, we always have to airbrush them out before we sell them to the public. And I was just 
amazed that they had a protocol in place for getting rid of UFO pictures on these things. . . 


He said that some [of the astronauts] who wanted to talk were threatened. They’d signed 
papers not to talk. They would have their retirements taken away. I was just overwhelmed with 
that piece of information so I started asking questions. Certain people that I knew were key 
people in the organization so I’d take them away from the site. We’d go to lunch and I’d talk to 
them. And alone they would tell me things and then swear if I ever said they said it, they would 
say I was lying. One gentleman that I knew very well was in quarantine with the astronauts. He 
said, just about every one of them has seen things when they went to the moon. In fact, one said 
that craft were on the moon at the time of the landing. But this man has disappeared off the face 
of the Earth. I’ve tried to find him but I only have his name. I’ve given it to SG. 


I also met a security guard that was forced to burn a lot of UFO pictures. He came into my 
office and he was very frightened. He said, Donna, I heard you were interested in this subject. 
He said, I used to work out there. And one day some soldiers came in fatigues and had me bum 
pictures. He said that he was burning them and he was forced not to look at them. But he was 
tempted. He looked at one of them and it was a UFO on the ground. Shortly thereafter he was hit 
in the head with a gun butt and he still had a scar on his forehead. Now, this gentleman was 
terrified. He was scared out of his mind. And he also said that in the picture was a UFO with 
little bumps on it. It looked like it had just landed. . . 


There was a point in time when I had some people come out and tell me I shouldn’t talk about 
this. They didn’t threaten to kill me but I got the message I shouldn’t talk about it. But I’d 
already talked about it so much it didn’t really matter anymore. And like I said at the [1997] 
congressional briefings, I really started feeling like this topic was like sex. Y ou know, everybody 
knew about it but nobody talked about in mixed company. I’m waiting to tell more whenever 
there’s a congressional hearing where I could be protected. I trust SG. I feel he’s done 
everything he said he would do as far as protection, secrecy of what I give him, for now. I want it 
to come out when it’s necessary and proper and can do some good. I don’t want people going 
around that are trying to get rid of these people or hurting them or challenging them or making 
them so frightened they move away-like this one particular man I know of who has just 
disappeared off the face of the Earth. This one man, he has disappeared. I just don’t want that. 


One of the things that I’m upset about is that good people are forced to do illegal things. And 
I believe that this information should be given to the American [people]. 




294 






Testimony of Mr. John Maynard, Defense Intelligence Agency (ret.) 


October 2000 


John Maynard was a military intelligence analyst for the Defense Intelligence Agency. 
In the course of his 21 -year career he saw evidence of the military’s interest in UFOs in 
a variety of ways: electronic communications which did not originate from Earth; 
military photos of UFOs. While at the DIA, he became familiar with the 
compartmentalization process of maintaining secrecy. He saw spy plane photos with 
clear UFOs in them 




JM: John Maynard SG: Dr. Steven Greer 


JM: My name’s John Maynard. I’m a retired military intelligence analyst and retired in 
1980. I was in the military for 21 years and started off with the Army Intelligence Security 
Agency as an analyst. I went on from there to work for several different organizations with the 
military, and ended up with the DIA at the end of my career, as an administrator in charge of 
most of the documents for the Requirements and Evaluation division. 


As far as being aware of what was in the intelligence world regarding UFOs and 
Extraterrestrials, this came early on in my career in the early 1960s. Some of the radio 
communications that I was analyzing for the Army Security Agency were a little bit more than 
just the normal type of traffic. I think at that point when I became too curious is when they 
decided to let me go from that position. 


I went on from there to investigate different aspects of what was going on with UFOs. When 
I got to Europe I was approached by a few of the counterintelligence people there that had 
information on my background as far as analysis goes. I became involved in looking at where 
people were moving drugs back and forth, as far as the military was concerned, and at the same 
time, I ran across the UFO problems that people were having — particularly sightings in Europe. 
I did preliminary investigations for these people and turned reports in on what people were 
saying; what was going on. 


But getting back to my initial exposure to UFOs — — that was connected to work in 
Okinawa, where we were analyzing traffic patterns [electronic communications] of the Chinese at 
that particular time. Every once in a while, I would run across an anomaly that wasn’t really 
within the pattern of the type of traffic that would be known within our military network. 


When I questioned this, I would always be pushed off to the side, and they would say, “Well, 
you don’t have to worry about things like that.” But I just couldn’t let it go — I still don’t. I 
pursue it to the ninth degree, without getting myself in trouble. But I did get in trouble that time. 
I found out that there was more to these communications than was normal, and that they were not 
basically Earthbound [were not coming from Earth]. 


And the further we dug into it, the more you noticed that it didn’t belong with the normal 
traffic that was being broadcast. I couldn’t trace any particular origin, and that’s what got me 
really interested in where this was coming from. Knowing a few friends that worked in the 
communications department, I sought their guidance on which way it was going. I guess that was 
my downfall, because they weren’t quite as good friends as I thought they were. 


SG: And what did you learn from that? 




295 






JM: Basically, that the communications really weren’t coming from within China itself — 
they were coming from another location, but they would not really divulge it. One of my friends 
just kind of pointed to me off at the side and threw his thumb up in the air. And I said, ‘Is that a 
good sign or not?’ And he said, “No.” And in private, very private talks, he admitted that they 
were not Earthbound signals. 


We didn’t really have a space program that would be moving that kind of traffic, nor did we 
have the communications systems and satellites at that particular time that would . . . I’m talking 
about the late 1950s, early 1960s. So as far as timeframe goes, it had to be something else 
besides just us. Sputnik hadn’t been up that long and neither had the American satellites. 


I think that that was really my downfall — 1 realized it had to be extraterrestrial — so they 
found a way to get rid of me and they did it very well. 


So anyway, while in Europe I researched these UFO reports, and we got quite a bit of 
information about the sightings. We would get drawings of what the vehicles looked like, 
whether they landed or not, whether they saw any people with them — extraterrestrials, things 
like that. And, it just made an exciting career for the next two years while I was over there. 


SG: And for whom were you making these reports during this time? 


JM: Basically they were going to the CIA, some to the DIA, and some to the Air Force, OSI 
— Office of Special Intelligence. What they were using the information for, I never learned. 


There are several different projects that I ran across later in my years when I was in Turkey in 
the mid-1970s — 76, 77, [and] early 78, when I left. I was an administrator and worked for 
NATO, Land Southeast Headquarters. 


I inquired with a couple of my Turkish military friends, and finally got one general to actually 
admit that there was UFO activity in this certain area of Turkey. He said, “Oh yeah, it’s a great 
area if you want to see UFOs, I’ll take you out there some time.” 


Once, while in the Pentagon, I was sent to try and get some files from Colonel Corso, and he 
made a comment that was really funny at that particular point. I didn’t really connect it with 
anything until later. He says, “You have no idea at all what we’re about, do you?” And I told 
him, ‘No, sir, I don’t.’ He said, “Well, some day the technology will be out there that has been 
totally back engineered.” It went right over my head at that particular point, but I just told him 
yes, sir, and off I went like a good little private, where I was supposed to go. I didn’t tell 
anybody what he had told me. I just kept it in my mind. I reported back to my superiors who had 
sent me, that Colonel Corso promptly just dismissed me from his office and I just left it at that. 


That happens all the time in the Pentagon. Materials are kept very tightly by the owners. 
Years later, while at the DIA, I saw some documents that pertained to extraterrestrials. They 
were code-worded. A normal person reading it may not catch it — it would go right on beyond 
them. These were top secret documents. I imagine most of them are still classified. A lot of 
them pertained to Salt 1 and Salt 2 — the strategic arms limitation treaties with Russia. 


I also saw pictures of UFOs from — I believe it was called — the National Intelligence 
Photographic Center [NIPC], Once in a while an anomaly would show up on the pictures that 
didn’t belong there — a round object, a triangular object. They were not markings put on the 
photograph that indicated some place or anything like that. These were above ground. These 




296 






anomalies came up in certain photographs and things that we received at our office at DIA and, 
we always thought they were interesting. They came from the NIPC, which I believe was the 
National Intelligence Photographic Center over on Hayes Street right there in Arlington. 


You knew that they were not part of something that was placed on the photograph, like a 
marker. It was not a normal type of object, particularly the oblong ones or the circles or the 
triangular ones — the triangles were kind of funny, with a rounded comer on the tail end of it. 
These were taken most generally with the Talent Keyhole Satellites, and they would show these 
objects — these UFOs in them. They would be objects from the TK11, TK12 shots that were 
taken, that showed the anomalies. Sometimes you could actually track it photograph by 
photograph as it moved across the [sky] — you knew that it moved. 


I had a rather interesting incident, not in an organization that I belong to as far as the DIA, but 
it was an office put within my area at DIA. Since it was in my area of security, I received the 
code name to go in there and to look at the office. It was called Omni Project. . .It dealt with radar 
satellites. I was talking with one of the sergeants over there in a little show room they had, and I 
noticed the satellite’s positioning. I said, “Now this is supposed to be a system that tracks radar 
anomalies on Earth, right?” He says, “Yep, that’s what it does.” So I ask, “Then why are half of 
them pointed towards outer space, towards the moon, towards areas that are just bla nk space?” I 
said, “At least half of those satellites that you got up there aren’t looking at Earth — well what 
are they looking for?” He says, “Well you got to have a need to know to know about that.” I 
said, “I see, in other words, who’s coming?” And he says, “We don’t know.” I just thought it 
rather odd that they were tracking stuff from outer space. 


I also did work with the Camp David accords and assigning the SR-71s, the Blackbird, to 
map the Sinai, and there were several reports at that particular time that the Blackbird had been 
accompanied by something that wasn’t from this Earth. The photos of the Sinai would show 
anomalies that weren’t part of the terrain, weren’t part of the people, weren’t part of the 
atmosphere. 


In Intelligence, compartmentalization is probably the whole thing. There is a real big 
misnomer out here in the civilian world about classification. There are basically three 
classifications: confidential, secret, and top secret. And that’s it. It doesn’t go any higher than 
top secret. They come up and they call about umbra and they call about this one, Omni. They 
called about TK, Talent Keyhole and other projects like that. Well, people have to realize that I 
had Eumbra documents that were only secret, not just top secret. It was not the same. 


I’ll get into the background of what Intelligence [does], how they break things down: they 
keep pretty much each organization an island unto itself. You don’t have cross- 
departmentalization a lot within the programs. Let’s say I have an umbra clearance. Well, people 
say that’s so high above top secret. No, it’s not. It’s a compartment — it is strictly a 
compartment — it’s not more. Top secret is as high as you go. Ultra is another compartment. 
That’s something entirely different and has to do basically with the President. So you can’t fool 
around with it. So that’s it. You have islands unto yourself. Each one does [its] own particular 
type of analysis. 


The one that I worked for was called Requirements and Evaluations, at the DIA. We were 
the ones that made the determination to fly the birds out of Wallops Island or somewhere else — 
to go up and put a satellite up. 




297 






We were DC3. There was a DC4, and there was a DC5. I would have to really dig back into 
my background papers to give you exact names for each one — that’s how compartmentalized 
they become. 


One of them did strictly analysis — that’s all they did, and they would feed it to us in 
Requirements. But, we didn’t really see all of what they did, and didn’t see all the material they 
did. They gave us the finished product, and we would look at the finished product and make our 
determinations of what we were going to do from there. That’s basically the way it is. Omni 
Project, which was the radar satellite — it was an island unto itself. If you didn’t have an Omni 
stamp on your badge, you didn’t get into their office — period, end of subject. Same thing with 
people with TK or many other things — Umbra, Ultra — same right on down the line. 


The NRO, National Reconnaissance Office, is basically run by the Air Force. The 
Reconnaissance Office, from my understanding from people that I’ve had contacts with since I 
retired, has taken on a lot more responsibility — particularly towards the UFO and extraterrestrial 
activities. 


You could say that they picked up where Blue Book dropped off. Blue Book was basically 
an Air Force project for themselves, but those activities finally fell under the purview of the 
National Reconnaissance Office. 


Now it is basically a joint service, but it is run by the Air Force and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
They have a very ominous job. Not too much is ever really known about exactly what they do, 
but they’re running the successor to the SR-71, which is supposed to be a Delta- type aircraft 
capable of [flying from] Los Angeles to London in about 18 minutes — so it goes near space. It’s 
pretty quick. Satellite imagery has pretty much gone to the background. You’ve still got Talent 
Keyhole. You’ve still got Omni. They’ve got a couple of others up there now that I don’t even 
know the code names for anymore, but most of the Reconnaissance is done by aircraft. 


As far as anti gravity, they’ve been working on it for a long, long time — I know that — but 
basically what I’ve seen is the magnetic pulse engine. It has a very unique signature when it flies. 
It has normal type fuel, but it also has a magnetic pulse set up to it. The signature is like a soap- 
on-a-rope-type of contrail behind it. 


A government is widespread, as everybody knows. It’s into everybody’s pockets and 
everybody’s life all over the place. The same thing holds true for the UFO/extraterrestrial 
subject, but very, very few people really [have] the full knowledge of what’s going on. It’s held 
very tightly within black covert operations. If you want to take a good close look at some of the 
background on it, you can go to civilian organizations outside of NSA, which are direct 
contractors for NSA — like Dry don Industries. Why are they flying the SR-71 on 
Reconnaissance using Navy pilots? What are they looking at? What is NSA looking at, when 
you think about that? Why are they doing these particular things? They are not using it for 
training, that’s for one thing. 


Within the organization at the executive level, I would dare say that the National Security 
Advisor, when he comes on board, is fairly well treated as in-the-know from the top at NSA. 


His knowledge is still limited, because he’s only an appointee, and at that particular point, a 
new appointee at the CIA is the same way. They will have knowledge, but very limited 
knowledge. Only some people within the black covert areas will have very specific information 
about what’s going on. 




298 






But, not very much is known about the NRO — it’s one of those organizations that’s so low 
profile. ..Any time the question comes up, it’s strictly an entity that does reconnaissance in the Air 
Force, period. It leaves a lot of questions. But as far as UFO and intelligence and extraterrestrial 
matters go, it’s right at the top — and 1 would say that the President has limited knowledge of it. 
I know Carter did not have any knowledge whatsoever. And I worked right there with the 
organization, President Carter’s organization. They kept it pretty secret. 


SG: Why do you think it’s being kept so secret? 


JM: I think that they made a mistake at Roswell. Rather than admitting it, they covered it, 
and they covered it because UFO and extraterrestrial activity has been going on a lot longer than 
this government will admit. I thought it was comical the way Bush — George W. — threw the 
ball into Cheney’s court saying that, of anybody who would probably know more about this than 
anybody else, it would be Cheney. He has some very interesting knowledge. . . 


Of coiporations involved in this matter, Atlantic Research Corporation is one of the big ones. 
It’s not very often heard about. It’s an insider beltway bandit, if you want to call it that — very 
low profile — mostly has all of its work done within Intelligence. TRW, Johnson Controls, 
Honeywell: all of them at some point or another became involved with the Intelligence field. 
Certain works, activities were contracted out to them. Atlantic Research was one of them — way 
back. These are entities that were created out of people in the Pentagon to become a “beltway 
bandit”: [they] received projects, grants, and monies to do certain projects that were so highly 
classified and compartmentalized that you know only about four people would know what was 
going on. So it was that tightly controlled. 


Y ou would have to look at coiporations that were started by people who were retired from the 
military. Bobby Inman and his little oversight group out there in California [SAIC], for example. 
Some other things like that. So we would ask the question, who really is controlling JPL? Why 
was JPL started? Others: Ames Laboratories, Fort Detrick. Some very interesting things come 
out of Fort Detrick. And Harry Diamond Laboratories... been around for a long, long time. 
Don’t hear much about them, because they’re all basically military contracted, and they are in a 
particular specialty. 


I don’t know if you’ve ever seen any back engineering notes — how they do it and stuff like 
that. Very unique. You can get an engineer to tell you how they do it, and the specific notes that 
you do. You take it forward from somebody’s notes, and you can build the item — just from the 
back engineering notes. Got to take it apart to find out how it works. 


I can think of some stuff that we’ve gotten out of Roswell. There was also a crash up in 
Canada in the mid-50s that was kept very, very hush, hush. There were definitely some 
engineering projects dealing with those things. 


About weapons and space: I think that we can go back to a comment that was made by one of 
the astronauts when he stepped on the moon. It was the day after they got there, and it was the 
original flight, and he says, ‘’’You’re right, they’re already here.” It got out on the airwaves. I 
know several people who recorded it. But the remark was very unique, because it was quickly 
taken out of all other tapes that were public broadcast. Weapons in space is still a big enigma. 
Black covert operations have always been trying to do something like that, basically. Star Wars 
was a big boondoggle. Most of it didn’t exist. It was just all on paper. Laser weapons... well, 




299 






that’s a whole different story. There are brand new leaps and bounds that have been made in the 
laser field. Not only cutting, but pulsed lasers that basically destroys anything it hits. 


SG: Do you thi nk then that we have weapons in space? 


JM: I’ m sure we have weapons in space. There is probably no doubt in my mind about it. 
They were trying to develop them long before Star Wars became an entity, back in the late 60s, 
early 70s. 


Nixon wanted something along that line to produce weapons for space. The project started 
then. (Not Nixon per se, the individual himself, but in his administration.) People wanted it 
done. There was a fear then of something out there. That was when the first stories came out 
about the asteroids impacting the Earth, and it really didn’t become a heavy project until very 
recently, but apparently we had some rather close calls back then — a — lot closer than what 
they call a close call today. So it became a very big concern — asteroids, UFOs, people coming 
from other places. 


[See the testimony of Dr. Carol Rosin.] 


Concepts were there. Ideas were there. Paranoia was also there within the government. At 
certain levels you could feel it. You knew it was happening. Would they tell the truth about it? I 
doubt it. Maybe some year. Maybe your project will tell them. Britain and the United States and 
Canada were the biggest party to these secrets. They got the Australians involved with it later on. 


The media is very one-sided when it comes to reporting. They don’t step on the other 
person’s toes when it comes to things that would be controversial — like UFOs and 
extraterrestrials. There have been too many sightings that have hit the mainstream media, but 
they die very quickly. Why do they die? There was more interest going on for the media to 
follow up on, but they just flat refuse to do it. Why did they? Were they pulled by strings from 
behind? I don’t know. I can’t say. And they’re not saying either. . . 


It goes right back to the same thing with these beltway bandits. Can you get them to say 
something? No. That’s where their bread and butter is. They’re not going to step on their own 
toes, punch themselves in the face. 


The truth is they have hidden things like UFOs and extraterrestrial information from us for 
years — not just the current era, but back before the 1900s. So it’s there. It’s about time for them 
to just come forward and say, hey, this is it. 


Testimony of Mr. Harland Bentley 


August 2000 


Mr. Bentley has been involved in working on classified projects with several 
Government agencies including NASA and the DOE. He has a BS-EE degree and 
extensive training in nuclear engineering. Mr. Bentley recounts a story of personally 
witnessing a UFO crash at a Nike Ajax Missile Facility in Maryland and viewing a 
group of UFO’s on radar take off at a calculated 17,000 miles an hour after having 
hovered on the ground. He also speaks of a 1967/68 incident where he overheard a 
conversation between Houston Control and astronauts in flight talk about avoiding a 
collision with a UFO spacecraft and our astronauts actually seeing living beings moving 
about through portals on the UFO. 




300 






In 1957 to 1959, 1 was outside of Olney, Maryland, just north of Washington, D.C. at a Nike 
Ajax Missile Facility. I was a radar operator. In May of 1958, at about 6:00 a.m. I first heard a 
sound that sounded like a pulsating transformer. I looked out the window and looked across the 
field and saw this [disc shaped] object heading toward the ground and saw it crash. It broke apart 
and then it took off again in flight... The largest piece that I saw was actually glowing white hot 
and was probably the size of a washing machine. . . 


When the craft took off again after it crashed, it went through a grove of trees and actually 
sheered three, four or five inch limbs, in just one fell swoop, like a knife or a machete. . . 


/ Note the resemblance to the crash of an extraterrestrial vehicle in Peru in 1997 as recounted 
by Lance Cpl. John Weygandt. SGJ 


The real exciting part happened the next evening while I was on duty. It was approximately 
10:00 or 1 1:00 at night and I got a call from the Gaithersburg facility saying that they had twelve 
to fifteen UFOs, 50-100 feet off the ground. So I asked the guy who was on the radio with me, 
“What do they sound like?” He took his head mike off, put it out the van window and again the 
pulsating sound except there were more of them. He was describing them in different shapes and 
so forth. 


I had the radar on, the M-33 sweep radar, and right next to the ground clutter where 
Gaithersburg sits, we found the blip where these vehicles were. Then all of a sudden they all took 
off at the same time. From my radarscope, it went in one sweep. It is a thirty-three and a third 
RPM. To go that distance from the center out to where I got the next blip in the first sweep, at a 
constant velocity would have to be 17,000 miles an hour which we calculated from our analog 
computer. . . 


I had another one, which I can’t say too much about. I can’t say where I was. I was at a 
facility in California, that is all I can say, and I was doing particular classified work. The only 
thing that I can say is that it was occurring at the same time that our astronauts were doing a loop 
around the moon and back again. On their trip to the moon itself I heard them say they had a 
bogey (term used for unknown target, and often specifically used to denote a UFO) coming in at 
11 : 00 . ' 


Well, familiar with that particular term, I perked my ears up and started listening and 
discovered that Houston and the astronauts were talking back and forth about a collision. The 
astronauts asked for permission to do avoidance for a collision and Houston finally granted that 
permission to do that. Later the astronauts said, “It is not necessary. They are now paralleling 
our course” and there was a discussion as to what was paralleling that course. 


It was another type of ship. There were portals there that they could see in. They could see 
beings of some sort. They did not describe these beings. They just took photographs. And after 
a while, a few thousand miles, they [the bogey] took off from the capsule that they were flying in 
and went away. They just said it was a saucer shaped craft. It was actually paralleling their craft. 
They saw movement. They saw something or somebody moving inside that ship. This happened 
before the lunar landing. . . . Then they said, “There they go.” And they [the bogey] went out of 
sight almost immediately, from what I could gather from their conversation. This event was 
unedited because of where I was [a secret listening post]. 


It was an extremely restricted channel... There was only one gentleman there with me when 
this happened. He said something like, “You didn’t hear anything.” And I said, “hear what?” 




301 






And that was the end of that. In fact, the gentleman was very disturbed that I was even there to 
hear this. The astronauts were approximately halfway to the moon when this happened. . . 




Testimony of Dr. Robert Wood, McDonnell Douglas Aerospace Engineer 


September 2000 


Dr. Robert Wood worked in a senior capacity as an aerospace engineer at McDonald 
Douglas for his entire 43 -year career. In his testimony, he states that he was involved in 
a specific project at McDonald Douglas to study the propulsion systems of UFOs. In 
addition, he confirms the existence of other projects within the aerospace industry, and 
gives his assessment of the fact that this subject is not only real, but is of extraterrestrial 
nature. He also confirms the extreme secrecy surrounding the subject. 


[See Secrecy Quotes section 3.3] 


Testimony of Dr. Alfred Webre, Senior Policy Analyst 


August 2000 


Dr. Alfred Webre holds BS and law degrees from Yale and a Masters of 
Education in Counseling from the University of Texas. He was a Senior Policy 
Analyst at the Center for the Study of Social Policy at Stanford Research 
Institute. In 1977 he worked on the Carter White House Extraterrestrial 
Communication Project through SRI. Its purpose was to gain knowledge on the 
subject then make policy recommendations. NASA director James Fletcher and 
the National Science Foundation were involved. The project was prematurely 
and illegally terminated by the Pentagon soon after it began even though it had 
already been approved within the Domestic Policy Staff of the White House. 


I worked on the 1977 Carter White House Extraterrestrial Communication Project. . . 


When [Carter] entered the White House in January of 1977, 1 was also entering the Center for 
the Study of Social Policy at SRI. In the interview process I declared explicitly that I would like 
to do an extra-terrestrial communication project at the Center. I was brought on with that explicit 
agreement and I went about making inquiries as to who on the White House staff was interested 
in the subject matter. I contacted that person and set up appointments with a basic outline of an 
extra-terrestrial project. 


So, this project was undertaken openly and was of a civilian nature with transparency- there 
were no classified aspects. It started at Stanford Research Institute in my offices... Once a final 
report was issued under the proposal it would be a White House document and would come out 
under their agency and their policy recommendations. 


NASA was one of the agencies with which we would work on a contract level. I have direct 
information from then NASA personnel that the proposal was at the Office of the Director, James 
Fletcher, who had it in his possession at the time. The National Science Foundation was also to 
be part of that proposal in terms of being able to work with a National Science Board and a Board 
of Advisors who would vet the research. 




302 






The full management staff and the research institute had signed off knowingly on the 
proposal at the Center for the Study of Social Policy at SRI. Tom Thomas, who was the 
Supervisor of the Center had signed off on it. Peter Schwartz who was, along with myself, a 
Senior Policy Analyst, and who was an advisor to the proposal, was fully aware of it. He is now 
Chairman of the Global Business Network. . . 


This project lasted from May 1977 when the initial contacts were made with the White House 
until 1977 when it was terminated by intervention from the Pentagon. The goal of the study was 
to fill the knowledge gap on this subject and make policy recommendations for the future. . . 


The proposal was known and approved within the Domestic Policy Staff of the White House 
and was in circulation with the White House Science Advisors Office. Those were the agencies 
named in the proposal. It was through the White House Domestic Policy Staff, under Stewart 
Eisenstatt, that we had the initial contact. 


1 visited the Carter White House every 20 days and met with White House staff every 2-3 
weeks developing the proposal to the sole- source contract stage during the period of May to 
September of 1977. My meetings were at the White House in the Executive Office Building with 
White House Staff from the Domestic Policy Staff. . . 


I flew back from my meeting with the White House at which this final approval had been 
given and when I arrived back at my offices at SRI I was called back into the office of the Senior 
SRI Official. He was an African-American and I referred to him in my sworn affidavit as John 
Doe. The other person in this preliminary meeting was Peter Schwartz who was based in the 
same office as myself and was an advisor to the project. The Senior SRI Official stated to me that 
in a few minutes a second person, who was the SRI Pentagon Liaison would be coming in. 


The project was to be terminated. They had received direct communications from the 
Pentagon that if the study went forward, SRI’s contracts with the Pentagon would be terminated. 
These contracts were a substantial part of SRI’s business at the time in terms of studies, monies, 
missile research contracts, and other contracts. The Senior Official advised me, and I am quoting 
him, “To dissimulate” and to just pretend I was going along with it- implying that I would keep 
my job if I did so. 


What happened then was that the SRI Pentagon Liaison whom I call in my sworn affidavit 
John Doe II came in and he stated that unless this project were terminated, SRI’s contract 
research with the Pentagon would be terminated. He stated then that the project was terminated, 
the project that had just been approved by the White House, was terminated because, and I am 
quoting him, “There are no UFO’s.” At that point, I vociferously objected. I recited baseline 
data that UFO’s did exist. It was to no avail. The Senior Official sided with the Pentagon person 
and the project was terminated. 


To my knowledge, SRI does not have a practice - and there is no case - of their canceling a 
project after explicit approval by the White House. Quite the contrary, they are extremely hungry 
for research dollars and when the White House approves a project, meaning that it is most 
certainly going to be funded by the line agencies, they would lunge after it. . .1 felt that the whole 
termination of the project was, in itself, a covert operation. . . 


Here we have a President of the United States who came to office under a pledge to open up 
the UFO issue; and an open study in the White House, and that was squelched. . .A colleague that 
held a very important position at NASA, contemporaneously, has come forward and has 




303 






confirmed that the administrator of NASA was reviewing this proposal and this provides 
corroboration. . . 




COPY 


STATE OF CALIFORNIA 




Affidavit of 


Alfred Lambremont Webre 




SWORN AFFIDAVIT I 


I, Alfred Lambremont Webre, do affirm and swear the following to be true and 
factual: 


1. My name is Alfred Lambremont Webre. I was born May 24, 1 942 at the US 
Naval Air Base, Pensacola, Florida. My present address is 1512 West 40 
Avenue, Vancouver, BC V6M 1 V8. I hold a Bachelor of Science degree from 
Yale University, 1964. I hold a Juris Doctor degree from Yale Law School, 1967. 


I hold a Master of Education in Counseling from the University of Texas at 
Brownsville, 1 997. I am a member of the Bar of the District of Columbia. 


2. 1977 Carter White House Extraterrestrial Communication Study - As Senior - 
Policy Analyst at the Center for the Study of Social Policy at Stanford Research 
Institute (now "SRI International", Menlo Park, California), I was Principal 
Investigator for a proposed civilian scientific study of Extraterrestrial 
communication. This Study presented to and approved by appropriate White 
House staff of President Jimmy Carter, during the period May 1977 until its 
unlawful termination of contract research on or about September 1977. 


3. At the time of such unlawful termination, the Proposal for the 1977 Carter 
White House Extraterrestrial Communication Study had been approved for 
implementation by the management of Stanford Research Institute, and by 
appropriate White House Domestic Policy staff. On information and belief, the 
1 977 Carter White House Extraterrestrial Communication Study was also 
pending review by James Fletcher, the Administrator of NASA in or about 
September 1 977. 


PERSONS WITH DIRECT AND PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE 1977 
CARTER WHITE HOUSE EXTRATERRESTRIAL COMMUNICATION STUDY 


4. On information and belief, the persons, together with their then positions, 
having direct personal knowledge of the 1977 Carter White House 
Extraterrestrial Communication Study include at least the following: 




1 


- 304 - 




304 




NATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS COMMITTEE ON AERIAL PHENOMENA OCICAPI® 


3535 University Bivd. Wert 
301-949-1267 Kensington, Maryland 20795 


REPORT Oil UMIOEIITiriED f LYING CEJECTO) 


This torn mckati Questions asked by the United States Air Force and by ether Arwed Forces* Investigating agencies, and additional «k>- 
lions to Much answers are needed for Aril evaluate by KICAP. 


Anei all the information has been fully studied, the conclusion of our Evaluation Panel will be published by NICAP in its regularly issued 
wagazine or m another publication. Please try to answer as siany questions as possible. Should you need additional room, please use another 
sheet of paper. Please print or typewrite. Your assistance Is of great value and is genuinely appreciated. Thank you. 




a «« jinny Carter 


AAtftl 


State Capitol Atlanta 


(404 ) 656-1776 


i. Lstt oi ObMnritim October 1969 


j. Lwryt eeorg!, • 




Place of Employment 




Occupation 
Date of birth 
Education 
Special Training 
Military Sat vice 


Time 




Governor 


Graduate 
Nuclear Physics 
U.S. Navy 


M PU 


7:15 




Time Zone 


EST 




.Seconds 




5- Please describe weather conditions and the type of sky; U.. bright daylight, nighttime, dusk. etc. Shortly after dark. 
€. Position ef the S*ai or Moon fe relation to the object and to you. hot In Sight. 


7. If seen at night, twilight, or dawn, were the stars or moon visible? Stars. 




Mere there more than ene ebtect? 


~~ “ ml, M any. 




If ao, pteaee tall how many, and draw a sketch of what you saw, indicating direction of 




- 305 - 




305 








?' 




000846 




v r*<>. mdm b. atmctiti « atimi- '» WWW. <M it <«*») aw*" 


Hit HMU Ol PJP». if *««»»■>• 




imn, ■ onfjr •» a ooaaco o* •*»»«. 








10. «a» «* oto|«ct(s) *mm toocto#oi»d 0 *• *»*? Yet. 


It „ cw, ». b^n-tu «* w V». ba*"!"*- •*- At one tlM. at bright at the soon. 




12 . £>< U* •&!•<«•»- 




(PImm •later at*. If you cjr fi*t teU«U.) 




a. Aooaar to Mate Mill at any !•«•? y** 


to. Sudtenty U>m 4 «0 and rua* *»ar 0 »* *••■? 
e. ft m* >0 «*o p«u m •■ptelo? 
a. c <«• an Moha? 


«. Um any vtaiMa tail? 




». Drop any***? 
f. CAanc* hr I ««*•**? 
to. Chan|« ttepo? 
CianpcM? 




yat 


tlza 


yet 




Saamsd to movo toward us from a diatanea, atoppad-moved partially twsy-istumad, than dtpartad. Btuiah at 
tint, than tsddish, luminoua. not aoid. 




11. CM abjacual at any baa Mat la baMW.ar btkns a*. anytWaa? It aa. aUata mabo.au ,\mt aiataaca. »». a«. M aauibia. ItO. 
14 . Vat aaa any was? no. * aa. ylaaaa ybi. 4 .att~a ana w— 4. 


U. 0*4 yaw at— tba abitcKt) Bat.#. m avtlcal laabiwaM « a aw a*. awtaa. «aaawa». alar. >Maaa. ac.a«U«. attt 
afca.T no . 


16. 04 Cte te|«cU» Kte« «y *o«4? no *'* M °" loudT 


17 . P 1 » 4 M Ml If tte o*oct<«) WM («■*•) - 




to. Fuujr « Mwcte. k Utod • *1#* Um. «. 0*1604. X 


U. V« (he o6,ed . to. MftetoMT x t- 0 mUIM*V C- <* Transport? 


is. on! 00 ob,*c«») riM « 101 *010 *•**•■? cbm close, saved t way- came dost then moved away. 


20. T«ll 00 0p««Mt liM 0 tt* 0*tocU») «N« Cto«P»«l **0 the fotlowinf teM 0 Iteftto; 


1 . uiS« 




A. PiWVMi C. DWW 


to. P«to 4 . W*Cto 0 




«. H«ir*iia 


f. lllwtllll 




K* ft»l« 


II. C(te«ki«<t 




oi About the same as moon, ma>t>e a little 


Vtrled frt» br1ghter/l«-9«r than planet to apparent tlze of non. 




it. Ka. .a .. bapaaa u .abca a. aaiacvafr 10-12 wen all watched It. Brlghttiitt attracted us. 
a. «... ... , 0 . and .** ..a yw W-I a. a. Mat Outdoors waiting for a neetlng to begin at 7:30pa 


a. Ha. a<a tb. abjaciiai mawba. aa. mwit tovad to distance then disappeared 


14. Caa<b«a Iba uaa. ¥ tba aWaclta) a. a aiaun a. tat anaart aa 0* aama apsataa ablbWa. Met pertinent 


15. MMim i«*aal aiacialt « Sw meant, at M t«a at Wmablataly an.— <4.7 a aa. ylaaaa tlab.au no. 


K. Fltaatauwaa *m aaunca atom abtacbal. Difficult. Kaybe 300-1 000 yards. 


i; ahal .at tna atavatian at tba abi«ct(a) . tha abyt Habtb Mb an 0.4 baauaiMlt Wale*. 


About 30* above horizon. 


21 Nantes and MdKSMl Of OCtet antnoiMl. if Py. 


Ten menbers of Leary Georgia Lions Club 




29. «0C do you ttoMfc yte «•! 


*. £xto««it<tn0 dovK*? •* Sd**!* 1 **! 


to. UPO’ *" *^ M4 ^ 


«. Ptteotoift*? to- otteir(fwjM«0cifyv 


d. Ail Cl 01? 






- 306 - 




* 














, \ 






306 






000847 


{ -i 






- 307 












Testimony of Denise McKenzie, former SAIC employee 


March 200 1 




Ms. McKenzie was employed by SAIC (Science Applications International 
Corporation) in San Diego, a large defense contractor. In the course of her work, she 
realized that there were millions upon millions of dollars in contracts awarded to SAIC 
and in almost all cases none of these contracts appeared to have any activity associated 
with them. She elucidates how “black” budget monies are hidden in seemingly 
legitimate projects. A pattern of sexual harassment began after she brought this issue 
before a supervisor. 


...Well, I opened up the files and there were only form letters, maybe two or three, and yet 
these contracts were several years old. And eve the letters that were in there were back dated 
several years, saying the same exact form letter: “It’s being worked on, blah, blah, blah.” And it 
was talking about sometimes millions of dollars in contracts. . . 


It seemed like there were all those different contracts that needed to be updated, but there was 
nothing to back it up. There was no activity on it, and that struck me as very odd. . . 


I thought, “This is just the weirdest run place I have ever seen. How do they do business? 
How do they get these million dollar contracts when things are so disorganized and nobody seems 
to be doing anything” - and I thought, “Nothing seems real around here.” It’s just like there’s 
four walls. We’re sitting in a very plush, very expensive building. I don’t have anything to do. I 
don’t even sharpen pencils. This is crazy. And as soon as I’m starting to do something, there is 
nothing even to these files. 


I thought they were getting a lot of money for doing nothing, and I didn’t know where that 
money was going. It’s like a front, a front for something. I mean, it was like you wanted to just 
hide funds or push funds through. . . 


SAIC has a very perfect situation to do any type of research they want to under the guise of 
anything — and call it what they want. And they definitely aren’t working alone in anything. 
They are what’s called a conglomerate. There is SAIC, but it’s made up of numerous individual 
corporations... 


And since it’s privately owned corporations, the only people they would have to report to is 
the ones who they’re doing business with and are contracting with. And so if the people they are 
contracting with wish to do something that maybe isn’t in the best interests of everyone, nobody 
is getting to know about it. It’s all kept in-house: the funding, the financing, the contracts. There 
should be files. There should be documentation and a regular timeline of events on every project, 
which did not exist whatsoever. And if I’m working in a military division and I have access to all 
of the files, where was this documentation? So it made me very suspicious of where al this 
money was going... 


[NOTE: I share this disturbing glimpse into the military/industrial contracting world to 
illustrate how USAPs (Unacknowledged Special Access Projects) hide money in dummy projects 
while the real money is diverted to super-secret projects not disclosed to Congress, the President 
or the American people. This is not the only witness I have spoken to who has knowledge of such 




308 






schemes. In 1994, Dick D' Amato who was senior counsel for the Senate Appropriations 
Committee under then Chairman, Senator Byrd, personally told me that somewhere between $40 
Billion and $80 billion was going into projects that they could not penetrate - even with a top 
secret clearance and a Senate subpoena. He said he was sure money was going into UFO - 
related projects but they could not penetrate them. I remember he said, “SG, you are dealing with 
the Varsity Team of all black projects - good luck... ” 


I should also comment on the weird atmosphere and sexual abuse Ms. McKenzie describes: 
This is common, not rare, in such operations. As she said, it takes on an unreal feeling. Even the 
story of her recruiter/supervisor having a different first name and being allegedly dead years 
before is a common pattern. People disappear from one project, allegedly are dead, and 
reappear in another super-secret operation with a different name or at least a different first 
name, as Dr. B points out in this testimony. Essentially SAIC is one of the crown jewels of the 
super-secret, black project world and is connected to UFO technologies and covert funding. 
Former NSA head Adm. Bobby Inman is heavily involved with SAIC, it should be noted. Here 
again, we see the revolving door between military: and corporate projects described by Dr. Rosin 
. After meeting with Senator Barn > Goldwater in 1994, I asked the Senator to get Adm. Inman ’s 
cooperation with disclosure. He rebuffed Senator Goldwater at that time. We hope he and others 
will soon come forward with the truth. SG] 




Testimony of Colonel Phillip J. Corso, Sr., US Army (ret.) 


[Our deepest gratitude to James Fox for sharing this interview] 


Colonel Phillip Corso, Sr. was an Army intelligence officer who served on 
Eisenhower’s National Security Council. After his 21 year military career he served as 
a military analyst. Colonel Corso personally saw deceased extraterrestrials from the 
Roswell crash in 1947 and a UFO craft at an airbase. Fie had also seen UFOs travel at 
4,000 miles an hour on radar. When he worked in R&D he was given fragments of 
extraterrestrial technologies from various crashes and his job was to seed industry with 
these technologies telling them they were from Earthly foreign sources. 


These ET’s are another intelligence, they are ahead of us and they’ve proven it- for one 
simple reason - they can travel through space and we can’t. It boils down to that simple. How 
are you going to overcome that? We don’t know anything about that so we have to start with 
what we know. The little we know is the greatest gift they gave us - the extraterrestrial not the 
hardware. 


The one craft I saw was at one of the airbases. I’m not going to say where it was but it was 
there and that was it. I didn’t go in it. I had a lot of information on what was inside. There was 
nothing I could gain by going inside and looking at it. I had the drawings of how it looked inside. 
I had what was in there. Really to go in it would have been curiosity and those days I didn’t have 
the time for curiosity. 


The extraterrestrial, he’s a little different. He’s composed in a way of cells also like humans 
are. And the craft is really almost a biological type of structure because the extraterrestrial fits in 
it. Remember these cloners that made these beings made them in a way where they would fit in 
what they wanted to fit in. The ship itself is a biological type structure. . . 




309 






Now when this being comes in this world he will wear a suit — skin-tight suit, which we 
found. His skin is atomically aligned and his suit is atomically aligned. That is to repel radiation 
and harmful affects - even cosmic radiation. Since he doesn’t breath air, the ones that come alive 
in this world, will have a type of helmet on them. Since he doesn’t speak, he has no vocal chords, 
he will have something that intensifies a transmission so he can communicate. 




I’ll go through that story now. I wasn’t at Roswell in ‘47. In ‘47 I had just come back from 
Italy where I had been Chief of Security in Intelligence in Rome and in the Intelligence business I 
was trained really by the British. I was an MI- 19. When I came back, I went to Fort Riley, 
Kansas. I was stationed there. I was an instructor at the Intelligence school and we had an 
aggressor force. One night I was first duty officer. First duty officer means that I was in control 
for that night and I checked all the guards, all security areas - 1 checked the whole post. 


So I went to the veterinarian section and a sergeant I knew very well was the sergeant of the 
guards that night. I told him, “Sarge, how is everything around here?” He said, “fine Sir.” I told 
him, “they told me to be careful, to watch this area because you have something sensitive here.” 
He said, “you want to see it Sir?” I told him, “yeah.” He said, “just go look.” I knew the Master 
Sergeant. 


I went back and there were 5 crates there, 5 or 6, but I think it was 5. I lifted one up and 
here’s this body floating in fluid. I looked at it for about 10-15 seconds, not much more than that, 
so I put it back down and said, “Sarge, get out of here now, I don’t want to get you in trouble. 
I’m the duty officer I can walk around here but you might get in trouble for coming back here. 
Come out with me.” We went out and I told him, “where’ d they come from Sarge?” He said, 
“well 5 trucks have been coming through here from New Mexico and they’re heading for Wright 
Patterson Air Force base.” 


Now in those days Route 40 was about the only cross-country route and the route that they 
took was Route 40 going through Fort Riley, Kansas and then to Wright Patterson Air Force. So 
I say, “stay away from it Sarge I don’t want you to get in any trouble.” I told him, “I can walk 
around.” So then I started to figure what was that? First, I thought it was a child because it was 
small, then I looked at its head and all, and this only happened in a matter of seconds, then I put 
the end back down. The head was different, the arms were thin, the body was gray, so right at 
that moment I figured I don’t know what this thing is. So in the Intelligence business I better just 
put it in the back of my head and wait in the future to see if I get corroboration so I can evaluate 
what it is. I promptly forgot about it. 


Ten years later, I was down near Commando Range [sp] in New Mexico, in White Sands at 
the Army & Missile firing range, right near Trinity site, my headquarters. On my own radar, I 
started picking up items going 3,000-4,000 miles an hour in this area. I had pencil-beam radar 
which locked on the target and the boys told me these objects were going about 3,000 to 4,000 
miles an hour. 


Once I notified headquarters. They said, “forget it - we’re not interested.” So I figured I 
won’t tell them anything anymore. Every time that would happen I would tell the boys, “bring 
me the tapes.” All my computers had a tape, which gave the whole firing sequence and we could 
check it if anything went wrong. So I told them, “deliver the tapes to me, personally.” 




310 






Then I left and went to Germany and 1 started picking up the same things in Germany - 
3,000-4,000 miles per hour flying over Germany. Again, the pencil-beam radar would lock on 
and all the ones [UFOs] that we would lock on would break loose. 


Then, I was four years at the White House and I kept getting reports there but they were just 
reports. I had all the clearances so I’d get them, even code reports I’d get. I did get one time a 
report that NSA was getting signals from space, which were not just space noise, or unscrambled, 
or something you couldn’t read- they were really very perfect and looked like something was 
guiding a real message. But we were never able to decode it. This was a very coordinated 
message. It wasn’t space noise or jumbo mumbo or anything like that or just noise coming. 


[See the testimony of John Maynard and A.H. SG] 


It was a pattern. The evaluation was that it might be coming from outer space beings and I 
got that report at the White House because I had the NSA clearances and all. Then I came back 
and General Trudeau pulled me in. He had organized a Research & Development project from a 
secondary ... At first, when I reported in I was a special assistant. Then he created the Foreign 
Technology Division about a week later and put me in charge of it. There I started getting the 
autopsy reports of ET’s, and I started getting other crash reports and the artifacts from the 
crashes. And I visited the site here [near Roswell New Mexico] a couple of times. 




When I came into Research & Development, I inherited all these artifacts and I inherited 
autopsy reports from Walter Reed Hospital. Now at Walter Reed there is a laboratory there, 
which was our laboratory that we financed. That is who did the autopsies for us. But we didn’t 
leave any copies there. All copies had to come back to us because it was our lab - we financed it 
all. So there we started getting proof that a crash really happened here. 


Of course, I kept it quiet for 35 years I had an oath with the General and I didn’t reveal names 
of peoples. My son said, “35 years you kept a secret and didn’t even tell your family.” I thought, 
“why should I tell anybody?” Now the General told me and said, “so let’s keep a secret, but 
when I die I relieve you of my oath.” 


Three years ago the General died and I started putting all this on paper. My grandchildren 
said, “what did you do during the war?” I thought I better leave them a legacy. I had no intention 
of writing a book, being in the military. But finally, it evolved and I gradually started to write 
and it evolved into this. So that is my background and as I said I had the evidence that a crash did 
happen here. 


Wilbert Smith was a genius and the government really treated him badly. I was supposed to 
go to his laboratory with him because the General told him, “Smith, you and the Colonel have a 
lot to talk about. I’ll let the Colonel come and visit you at your lab on Lake Ontario. Well, I put 
it off, and in 1962 I decide to go up. I called up and they told me Mr. Smith died of cancer and I 
never really got to go to his laboratory. He gave us a piece of a metal that he took from a flying 
saucer. 


[See the Smith memo and the testimony of others including Dr. B., et al. SG] 


We exchanged metal samples [from crashed UFOs] and he brought ours back later. 




311 






To Congress I’d say, “it happened” and I’d add on to that. “Give this information to the 
young people of the world - they want to hear it, they want it. Give it to them. Don’t hide it and 
tell lies and make stories, they’re not stupid. They’re not young men that will panic.” In fact, my 
own nephew is Research Director of DECO [sp] Corporation. He calls me and says, “Uncle Phil, 
why don’t they tell us the truth? We aren’t going to panic and pull our hair out.” 


One good example of this, which I always tell, to prove this point that the young people want 
it and aren’t going to panic: I always prove it this way - I commanded a battalion of 1,500 men, a 
combat battalion, average age of my soldiers was 19 years old. I told my exec one day, “my God, 
we’re sending babies into battle.” These kids fought the greatest armies in the world. They 
didn’t run. They didn’t panic. They stood there and fought. Why do you think they’ll panic? 
They want this information and they deserve it. It’s their information. It doesn’t belong to the 
Army or Department of Defense - it’s theirs. If it’s classified, take the classification off and give 
it to them. 


I always say this - the government is so big and so vast, that if you leave it alone it will cover 
itself up. When I testified in front of Missing Prisoners of War in front of Congress, Senate, and 
not too long ago in front of the House, and they asked me a question like this. I told them, “look 
it amazes me when General Skolcraft [sp] and Kissinger can come up here in front of you 
gentlemen and say there is no information there. I sent it myself from Tokyo over a 
teleconference over a two-year period. How can they say that?” And all the families were sitting 
there and they wanted to hear this. Later on we searched and we found it. It had fallen through 
the cracks. The politicians didn’t care, they have their own little ego, and do their own little job 
to get in the newspapers. If a Prisoner of War is missing from families, they don’t care. And the 
cover up happens like that sometimes with nobody doing anything- it will cover itself up and fall 
through the cracks as I put it. 


We never trusted the CIA because in my day Stalin gave orders to get information that came 
out of Roswell to some of his top scientists and agents. That order went out and we knew that in 
Special Intelligence (that I was in the Pentagon) the KGB tried to penetrate that but they never 
did. We knew that Stalin sent agents out all over this area here to try to get information on 
Roswell and yet we stood back like fools and said it didn’t exist - we said it was a weather 
balloon. They didn’t thi nk it was a weather balloon because they had indications that this event 
was happening. 


[See also the testimony of Gordon Creighton. SG] 


Countries in Europe are taking this very seriously. They’re not like us. They’re not going to 
put out stories that dummies came out of the air or that these were people with big heads. Those 
people are more serious about this than we are. But around here I’m not surprised to see the 
reaction from these people. Some are like me, they’ve never been out like this, after being in the 
military you don’t go out and give interviews and write books. 


We gave information about the ET technologies out and insisted they [the corporations] take 
the patents. But also we put a little bit of a requirement: Feed it back to us, the competitive edge 
of the Army-take the patents, make all the money you want, but give it to the American people 
and give it to the world. 


The Japanese, they interviewed me and I told them, “when we put the integrated circuit out 
we also gave it to you.” I’ve testified in front of six congressional committees. If they want me 




312 






to I will testify, providing they’re serious and they’re not going to put it in the archives and just 
put it away . . .1 won’t go up there to help a senator or congressman get elected. 


Look, there is a lot of stupidity involved- let’s face it. Maybe mine is a little stupidity that I 
kept quiet so long but I had an oath to a General that I wasn’t going to talk until he died three 
years ago. Also there were other people involved and like I told you before I don’t reveal them 
unless they want to come forward. But we should have done more. 


The head [of the ET] really wasn’t that big, but in proportion to the small body it looked big. 
Later 1 got my hands on the autopsy report in 1961, when I took charge of the Foreign 
Technology Division, from Walter Reed Hospital. From there, I started putting it all together. 
The nature of the body inside was described in the autopsy report. They did an autopsy and they 
cut open the brain and all. The brain was different, and most of the body was different - no nose, 
no mouth, no ears, no vocal cords, no digestive system, no sex organs. So, then we came to the 
conclusion that it was a humanoid clone. As I say, when I saw the body, there was nothing to go 
on. Later on, I got the autopsy reports that experts had done, our own experts. 


But we kept it to ourselves- only certain people knew about it, head to head, brain to brain, no 
paper trail. We were able to accomplish something. Now we had discussions with the German 
scientists [brought over after WWII in Operation Paperclip]. 


General Trudeau told me one day, “it took us five years to fully develop a transistor that 
somebody else started and the integrated circuit. If we didn’t have the help of people like 
Hermann Oberth and Wilbert Smith and the boys upstairs, it would have taken us 250 years. The 
message in my book I like to see is that the younger generation looks at this and see what we did 
and see the help we got from outer space and that these beings exist. Let the young people know 
that that’s the future they are going to be seeing and live with. 


That’s what I think the message of the book is and what I’d like to see it do: Let the young 
people have it ... we’re old, we’re going to be gone, let those young people know... they need 
this help, they’re going to be the ones to carry it on. 




313 










■y^'tn ltLTBgtllc»torrror tb*-JLir /ore** »Ut*d;th*t tow »o r cg^JU»i: 
^.flying. Wyejfr*iha 4 Jt->en;r«e 3 Tor>S ' la B»» iUxled L"S>^.V»r *;'£3 
t''^*sc=ibe>d a£.balng circular 'da. *^p®;witij-i^ood, 


J-JJtatiilyi 50 r*»t-ln ai isi tw ^Sich'cig. wa i oc cupi*d ; by'-tht-e • bodi**’^*-' 
. -. ,/.• of binaaf; *!Uj>S^biA'eo2or:3 f»«t tall, v dr»a a rxLin .■■tiin» doth ef^.J^ 


' '’~Ta.;'TT»ry fin* •'.i>erttCT^cJ*cir' body wan 'fc nn d a giHl.la -a' umcr 
•' •' t*o : th »; hl^cVjM V'grult*' ti» »d 'by ’ 0p*m& flyer* .‘aid’ A* t pilot* , - 


ff~-rrr1‘ , nr tn - tf- Tlnfirrnnnt^tht c*Tirj»JpS»ejr* fcnndla. 


" VoxLtio .'due ‘to. .the feet- that th»,Coy»rrus!mt /«i.‘ "a -'V bt 7 : hlgb-po varad 
raiar .*et-^ipita .that araaanj'lt latorf »re*.^ 










[Retyped for clarity] 


TO: DIRECTOR, FBI 


FROM: GUI HOTTEL, SAC, WASHINGTON 




DATE: March 22, 1950 




SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS 


INFORMATION CONCERNING 


The following information was furnished to _ A. 




An investigator for die Air Force stated that three so-called 
flying saucers had been recovered in New Mexico. They were 
described as being circular in shape with raised centers, approxi- 
mately 50 feet in diameter. Each one was occupied by three bodies 
of human shape but only three feet tall, dressed in metallic cloth of 
a very fine texture. Each body was bandaged in a manner similar 
to the blackout suits used by speed fliers and test pilots. 


According to Mr. informant, the saucers were found in New 


Mexico due to the fact that the Government has a very high powered 
radar set up in that area and it is believed the radar interferes 
with the controlling mechanism of the saucers. 


No further evaluation was attempted by _ A concerning the 
above. 




RHK:VIN 




- 314 - 




314 






■t „ 




! f 




•ftft OlflVkfl 


O • >1 


*% 9* • • I? 




• rr 3 f rr 
• U < 3 ft 9 


c m § *«*•••- 




-rs 


• 9_(f < 4<*» 


• Chi* *1 


4i ISIS’S* 


O * * • o * • • 
*1 ft ►-»« turn 






_ _ • 3 r »0 


* f* • *1 i»3 f» 


**»* •-• • rr 


*»• *• • a. o.« 


lo I-:'?: 
.“■“So-s®: 


c^gasss 


h« <h« • sr 


• IhHB n»**»5 


•5?,§5§.y 


^gs-^ss 


H* _ ft ft 


•ft 


I 




?s 


tr 9 


• 9 
H • 


rr < 


S s 


1!* 


*-< 


2 SS 




I f 




8 ft O f» 


OlMO 


C«« _ < 


*-•• rrm 
Cb S’* 


H ft ft M 


• • |b* 


• «0*J 


3 • • N 


(bl O H 
» ara k v 




MM M 


**• O 


mn c 




Mft O JJ3 • *“ 




r*ft r. 
5TH ft 


5 S : 


pi 




• • SC '. 3 
►■•*•• _ < 
■ MC Oft. 


O 3 S • 3 H 


• M» MM 


rr 9 K M 


m < an 


m • • • 


K rr 


I* O 
ST 3 
*“ 


= s 
» 
tr 








So 


32 




Kaoco 


c a< S m 


,• • 0*40 


‘ a *• K 
0*~0 
, -ssri 
£• **-. 




\ 83S? 
• g.382 




*k 
•j.rmO 
A •- 2 




• • 


•SH 


rr o 




s: 


< o 


j 9 2 


H * 


S5T 




*3 C 3 |S" 


-ss. Is: 
°§“2 ss. 


ft •** C 'HO 
3 rr rr • O* n 


• 0 H 1 r» - 


SSSx . M * 


HII . O r 3 m 


■ • ft g 0 < 3 


M H 3M a* < 


• o * • m • 


0 3 ft CfcO 


mKHS rr < rr 


••O 5(9 M Cb Sr 


? n zz 5-. s 


? • o • 0 < 


m c *r • • 


M»M* *• O O 


1.00 M 


O H 3 MM 


r rr r MO 


3 ^ H M 0 9 


• K • 9 . •« 


Of. 


ir c «k * m- 


• MOO 33 


• 3 C ft 


"fl«- , s-S 


0 • M 00 


M0 M0 < ( 


_ tr 0 rr ft ft 


1 mo rr _ H 


•Z o **• arr» 


; 5 n *3 




*-5 


: “ 


3-7 


sl 


rrm 


• 


K 


O 


c 


ft — H 
M4 (ft 
M ft r~ *— 
rr 3 


M3 sr«o 


• rr 


■: 


• H 
ft _ 


cr • o 


M ft r« 


c~f? 


S.2 . 


* O 


w* 


?o 


rr 


ft „■ 


B,SS . 


r 


. c 


K ft r-rr 
*£« 




&: 








* E 5 


5 *2 




li 




ft • M. 


' CS 




ft M(JM 
3 O *1 3 


-.; S?S 


M>ft 3 




5* 


II 


li 




< 


«• 


| 




s 


> 


(/» 


I 


z 


o 


-4 


O M Pj 




• r2; 


* T..-.i 




, • .’ -J 


5 z £*3L' 


*.§.1 t 




SI 


II 


* O 
£ ^1 
l H 


• n 
o 
z 
z 
o 


5 


o 


< 




9l 




z 


o 




J. ro 
!. 09 
00 — 




;v» 






O rrM 
C 3*3 


o35 


IT* ° •* 


5-5 




5\ Sfr 


O O 
rr 
M 


•« 


SC 




m rr rr rr 
• trtfft 


* * 2 




ft *- 




“§ 




*r ft tft O 


M HOI 


M# 0 9 0 




■s? 


■ 4 J 




OK 


:* 
o o « 


rr 


3 S 2 


“ ft r» 


C ft 


a 'O 




2 


• CM 
< trr% 
m m> 


M ft O 


MM 


ft r*ft 


•o O M 


• rr^ 


• rr o 
Chft n 




c *•<* . ,4 




- 315 - 




•T v 


-y? : 




315 








Testimony of Mr. Glen Dennis 


September 2000 




Mr. Dennis was a mortician in Roswell, NM. In July 1947, the time of the famous 
Roswell crash, the mortuary officer from the Roswell Army Airfield called him asking 
for hermetically sealed infant caskets but never explained why. Later that day when at 
the Airfield for an emergency he saw debris of u nk nown origin. A nurse, whom he 
knew, described to him the bodies of extraterrestrials she had just handled at the base. 




GD: Mr. Glen Dennis RS: Ralph Steiner 


GD: Well, our mortuary had the contract for all military services out at the Roswell Army 
Airfield. This gentleman called and said he was a mortuary officer at the base and he needed 
some information. And I said, what do you need? He said, how many hermetically sealed infant 
caskets do you have, three and one-half, four foot, in stock? I said, we don’t have any. How long 
would it take you to get them? I said, well, I can call them by 3:30 this afternoon and have them 
in here in the morning. I said, what’s going on? He said, that’s not important. 


Then he called back later and he said, I need more information. And he wanted to know what 
embalming chemicals that would alter the tissue, the stomach contents, and what is our 
preparation for taking care of bodies that are lying out in the elements for several days? And I 
said, you are the mortuary officer and you are asking me? I was trying to find out who I was 
talking to 


Later on in the day I got an emergency. When I arrived at the base there were three field 
army air force ambulances backed up against the ramp. We were walking up the ramp and I saw 
a lot of debris. And when checked in, I said, sir it looked like we had crash. Do I need to get 
ready for it? And he said who in the hell are you and what are you doing here? And I said, well, 
I had an emergency and we have the contract for all military services. And it looks like you had a 
crash. He just said, stay right here. Don’t move. So I stayed there. And pretty soon he came 
back with two military police and said get this guy off of the base he’s not supposed to be here. 


Whatever had happened, all the doctors and nurses that were stationed here in that area were 
given orders not to report [it]. It was my understanding that the reason for this was that there 
were all these specialists who had been sent in from Wright Patterson. 


So evidently I was involved in things that I shouldn’t have been involved in. 


I knew this nurse. And this nurse didn’t get her orders not to report. She met two 
pathologists from Wright Patterson. They were examining what was brought in from the UFO 
crash, what we call the Roswell crash. And they said. Lieutenant we still need some help. And 
this is what you are going to do. And they wanted her. And so they’d turn a hand [from the ET] 
and she’d say, four fragile fingers, so many centimeters etc. She said she wasn’t in there over 20 
or 30 minutes at the most and then all their eyes started burning and their skin was getting real 
warm and real hot. So they had no idea what they had, and the two pathologists said there wasn’t 
anything in the anatomy books like this. There wasn’t anything like that in our medical schools. 
They had never seen anything like this. Immediately after that the ET bodies were put in these 
pouches 




316 






RS: And the nurse actually described for you what they looked like? 


GD: Yeah, when the MP’s were taking me out down the hall, that’s when she came out of 
the supply room with this towel over her face and that’s when she screamed, Glen get out of here 
as fast as you can. I met her the next morning at the Officer’s Club in a conference room and 
that’s when she gave me a little diagram of what was going on and what they looked like. And it 
looks like what you see today, most of the little diagrams, you know the four fragile fingers and 
the long arms, the large eyes. She said the heads were almost completely demolished but they 
could see they only had two orifices. They didn’t have ear lobes; they had two ear canals. The 
mouth was only about one inch. And that’s the way she described it to me. 


And I was with her until about 1 1:30 that day, and then at 3:30 that afternoon her supervisor 
called me and said, your friend has been transferred out. And 1 have her military serial number 
and everything else but I never have found her to this day. I’ve never made contact with her. She 
had been planning to join a convent. And I imagine they discharged her and let her go. It’s a 
good place to keep somebody quiet. 


[There is a repeated pattern of people who are witnesses to extraterrestrial events being 
suddenly transferred and separated from other witnesses. SGJ 


One of the MPs took me aside and he just said, look mister, you don’t go and start any 
rumors. Nothing happened down here. And he said, if you do you know there’d be real serious 
problems. The way my character was at that time, I just said. I’m a civilian and you can go to 
hell. And that’s when he said, you may be the one going to hell. He said, somebody would be 
picking my bones out of the sand if I talked. 


The material I saw from the crash didn’t look like aluminum or stainless steel. What it 
looked like, of course, we didn’t have in those days. It was a real light gray, almost a white. And 
some of it was real dark. It looked more like what fiberglass might look like today. And it 
wasn’t dented or anything. It looked like it had been twisted and shredded and all this kind of 
stuff. But I didn’t see any real shaip dents. I know it was very thin. I could see that it was very, 
very thin. 


One of those sergeants out there said, well, let him go to hell, nobody is going to believe him 
anyway. Nobody is going to believe this happened. 


[Indeed the truth about this matter is so far outside of most people ’s reality that it is its own 
best cover. The truth covers itself even if placed in plain sight.] 




Testimony of Lieutenant Walter Haut, US Navy 


September 2000 


First Lieutenant Haut was the Public Information Officer at the Roswell Army Air Base 
in Roswell NM when an extraterrestrial vehicle crashed in nearby Corona. He was the 
individual who put out the original story that a flying disc had crashed there. That story 
was retracted the next day. 


. . . We had, in our possession, a flying saucer. It was found on a ranch up north of Roswell. 
It was being flown to General Ramey’s office, that being the next higher command- the 8 th Air 




317 






Force. And that was the end of it. The information that I got was given to me, almost verbatim, 
by Colonel Blanchard. He read off of a scratch pad that he had in front of him and I was writing 
it down. After we got all through with it, I was kind of awed. . . 


I learned that they put all the hu nks and pieces [of the crashed ETV] in an aircraft and it was 
flown out. But [after the press release went out] I got call after call after call. . . 


The [cover up] was pretty well orchestrated. I think the thought of handling it that way came 
down from Washington, through channels, and we were told that we were all wrong, that it was 
just a weather balloon. . . 


I think that there was lots and lots of cover up. My sincere feeling is that thing was something 
from outer space. And the military decided that our public may not accept it very graciously, 
something coming from outer space and hitting our own Earth. It’s a little bit hard to get many 
people to accept it. . . 


Testimony of Buck Sergeant Leonard Pretko, US Air Force 


November 2000 


Buck Sergeant Pretko was trained in communications and served at Hickham Field in 
Hawaii. In the early ‘50s at an outdoor theater with over 250 people present nine silver 
disks were seen by everyone randomly moving over the entrance to Pearl Harbor. The 
event lasted for about 10 minutes. At another time he explains that he befriended one 
of General Douglas MacArthur’s personal security guards who told him that MacArthur 
had seen the craft and extraterrestrial bodies from the Roswell crash. 


. . . Everybody turned and looked to the right and over the entrance of Pearl Harbor there were 
nine silver disks. The first sighting that we had they were like a letter “L”. Before we knew it 
they were going this way and that way and they were making all kinds of maneuvers. It lasted 
about ten minutes. Everybody just kept looking. We had some Colonel get up and he said, 
“Don’t worry about it folks. Those are all just spotlights.” 


Well, being an idiot like me I jumped up and said, “Colonel, what do you mean spotlights? 
There are no clouds. There is no beam of light coming from anyplace.” He told me to shut up. 
Just then the Bird Colonel jumped up, his name was Miller, and he said, “Colonel, you shut up. 
You aren’t going to fool the people here. They are all military.” So we watched the things for 
about 1 0 minutes and then they just took off. 


These things, they were really fast. There were times that we read in the Honolulu newspaper 
that they had tracked these objects once going from Hawaii to Japan in eight minutes. . . 


He said to me, “You know that I am a member of General Douglas MacArthur’s security 
guard. I am on my way to the States for TDY. General Douglas MacArthur was very familiar 
with the Roswell incident, the crash material, and also the bodies because he himself has seen 
them. That is what he told me. From that day on I never mentioned a word until five years ago. 


In the military they do ridicule you and I was ridiculed a few times about these UFO events. 
I was told that I would never make Master Sergeant if I brought this crap up again. My superior 
said, “If you keep this crap up you will never make Master Sergeant. You will get orders for 
Tech but you will never make Master Sergeant. They will force you out of the military.” 




318 






Testimony of Mr. Dan Willis, US Navy 


March 2001 


Mr. Dan Willis was in the Navy from 1968 to 1971 with a top secret crypto level- 14 
security clearance. Later, he worked for 13 years at the Naval Electronic Engineering 
Center in San Diego. He tells of a time when he received a most unusual 
communications from a merchant marine ship near the Alaskan coast. The message 
said that there was a reddish-orange glowing elliptical object about 70 feet in diameter 
that came out of the ocean and shot off into space. It was tracked on radar going 7,000 
miles an hour. Many years later, Mr. Willis related this story to someone he knew who 
had previously worked at NORAD. He said that there were occasions where objects 
would be tracked on NORAD radar going so fast that they were off the scale, and once 
when this happened one of his older supervisors causally told him that, “it was just a 
visit from one of our little friends.” 


. . . The message had the following content. . . I remember very vividly the details of what the 
content of the message was. The message revealed that coming out of the ocean, very near the 
ship, off port bow, a reddish-orange glowing elliptical object, approximately seventy feet in 
diameter, came out of the water and shot off into space. The ship’s radar tracked it. It was going 
over 7,000 miles per hour. It all stuck with me to this day. . . 


I worked with some of the personnel that worked at NORAD. We were talking about UFOs. 
He said, “When I first started working at NORAD,” quote, “the screens, which monitored the 
radar across the country, all of a sudden something would come across the screen and the scale - 
reading the speed on this thing would go off the scale ...” And one of the older supervisors 
advised him, “Oh, it’s just a visit from one of our little friends,” like just a normal occurrence. 


Testimony of Dr. Roberto Pinotti 


September 2000 


In his testimony, Mr. Pinotti speaks about the 215 inexplicable UFO events in the 
Italian Air Force files. He obtained official Italian documents that date back to the 30’s, 
specifically 1936 where the then Fascist Government was handling and documenting 
UFO sightings. Mussolini was very concerned about these unexplained craft because of 
the effect they might have on the Italian Air Force. The documents talk about elongated 
craft expelling smaller flying-saucer type UFO’s. One sighting happened over the skies 
of Venice. The Air Force attempted to intercept these craft but could not as they were 
too fast. Recently the Chief of the Intelligence Office of the Italian Air Force, General 
Olivero, spoke about this subject saying that the problem of UFO’s exists and that the 
Air Force has been dealing with it since 1978. There were even two landing traces in 
Campagna near Naples where the soil was bombarded with high intensity, high 
frequency microwaves. There was another important event documented by Air Force 
General Salvatore Marcholetti in 1976 where, in Fechi, he was flying and came across a 
huge green object that appeared over his plane. Soon the UFO took off at tremendous 
speed. 


. . .From the standpoint of the nature of the sightings, the Air Force documents show that we 
are facing definite real objects and that these objects are detected by radar. The Italian military 
pilots have had encounters in the skies of Italy exactly like in the US and elsewhere. When the 
Italian Air Force says that they have 215 cases still unexplained this means that they are UFO 




319 






sightings which have u nk nown characteristics. For instance, there are cases of military planes 
attempting to intercept these objects in the skies of Italy. But these objects go away without the 
possibility of being intercepted... 


Recently, we had an Italian Air Force officer speak officially and in uniform about the UFO 
issue. The speaker was General Olivero. He’s the chief of the intelligence office of the Italian 
Air Force, which is in charge of following the UFO cases. He said that the problem exists and the 
Italian force is handling this difficult issue since 1978. He said that they have on file at least 215 
UFO cases, and that really there are inexplicable cases. He was also asked officially by the press 
what he thought on a personal basis. He said that, since he’s a pilot, he knows serious colleagues 
and serious pilots who have related encounters with UFOs, and he said, I trust them. 


In the ‘90s we had two landing cases in Italy and both occurred in Campagna — Campagna is 
the region near Naples. The landing traces left by these two different objects were analyzed in a 
laboratory by our experts. We got specific results. We discovered that the objects, after their 
landing, had really bombarded the surface of the soil with high intensity, high frequency 
microwaves. We could check and define this effect. We then compared these results with the 
world famous case of Trans en Provence in France, which occurred in 1981 and which is a classic 
from this point of view. It was very important because when we went to Toulouse we found that 
the data we saw from these cases were really similar in effect. 


This was very, very important. We have a good relationship with the French governmental 
body which researches UFO matters in France. Monsieur Valesco is the head of the 
governmental body who studies the UFO problem in France. 


The French, they think that the problem is real, that we are confronting a real phenomenon, a 
technological phenomenon of unknown nature. The position of the French is extremely open and 
extremely realistic. . . 


Another important case was the case of an Air Force general - he is retired now - General 
Salvatore Marcholetti, in 1976. When he was the chief of the flight school of the Italian Air 
Force in Lechi, he happened to meet a tremendous object during a flight. He was flying and he 
suddenly saw this green object over him - over the cockpit. He understood that something 
enormous, huge, was over the plane. 


He didn’t know what to do. Seconds later, minutes later - he still doesn’t know how long this 
experience lasted - he suddenly saw this mass take off with tremendous speed. Only after he left 
the Italian Air Force did he mentioned this event. . . 


From a logical point of view, I don’t think that we have anything to fear because if we were 
facing hostile beings, surely they would have conquered us or made incredible things happen in 
the past — they could really. If this hasn’t happen, surely it is because we haven’t nothing to fear. 


Probably there are, in every part of the world, invisible links with a definite invisible college 
that is keeping this secret. They are dealing with this subject from the standpoint of research 
secretly in order to have gains and technologies to be applied in a various ways. The UFO 
problem is not only a scientific problem, it is also an intelligence problem. 


This is the second important face of the UFO reality. When we begin to understand this we 
may understand a lot of things, because all this has to do with power. Power everywhere, in 
every country, with every government, with every situation. 




320 






*,F 




w, 


'ir 3 




• O. 




>7 ■ 


In 






m: • 
11 m- ■ 
II w 


4*rt- 


|V i'i'- 


•sfe- - - 


if If- 


It u 


Ate s&- 




£) 000120 ' 


. DEC 10 1232 ' 




KBXSADDOl P CO: 
SSS30S3: 
suajsst: 
KPssrsx 




iloiJ: 9 i • 


J ... 




2ho Director of Centred ^ptdiisenee 
Bcputy Director (intelligence) *• • 


Ibidcatified Flying Osjecta 
Bequest of the Director of 10 Dsccabcr 3552 • 




if- 


v 




tfi 8- 


’if w 




b. 


or;.’ 


St av • T.n r 


$; 


If!' 


€» 


rf;, .. 




1 i . I • . . • 


.i , !• Sie follovixifi is a crr.-.ry of tlic current oltaatioa vlth re?- 
poet to tha irvastlgntica of unidentified fly las objects. Secant 
incident# includa: I •; ■ • * 


• - * • ' ” ] ■ ■ • ‘v * . • . •. ■ *• ■ I 


»« Kcvlea cf tea (lfi) unidentified flying objects '■ •• 


• * ‘ '■ (uscxplnllicd. ca the tesla of natural pbenorcat or Saera types .* *• 
of aircraft), sesr Stsacatsa, Utch, cn 2 July 1552. ' • 


■ ! y- ' r" 


t. . A very brilliant c. identified lldit over tfco coast 
■ ^ '_of Maine for cheat feur blurs ca the nipit cf 10-11. Cstater 




at a height eerputed ta ts tva or three- tires That -which can. 
to a-estelncd by ary iaeva device. . -. • *. 


e. Alleged contact vlth a device ca tha la 


Florida late this scaaer which left acae prscsatly waerpleixsd 
after-effects. • 


• \ . 


• • • 1 


a. Duaarcus ether sittings or lights or Objects which 
either in ccaficuratica or prrfcrmnec do not rescshle any 
laova aerial vehicle or esplain&ble y-«.*aivf«.7 phcacoaaa. 






. „ • A 


plcane-i for Friday. It is hoped to organisS' tha panel csi wnderteir 
SsuC*. ®'fJstc:itlwe scientific review of this subject vittin’ths neat tva to 




throe vaahs. 




• ..4 




*‘t • . V t 




■ 






KSfV’t’j' ; -X-.- ■ . . ♦ 


-*. Distribution: 


ra/x - l / 


Opas/SI - l' y 
Prod/Si - 1 
• AD/SI - 2 


CGI :KLC/ntv (l0Dee52) 




v:s~z:zz. zhverniu/ 




Asalstcat Director 
, Scientific XntcUigcneo 






TA 




321 






PERTINENT PARTS RETYPED FOR READABILITY 




000112 




pf'MEMORANDUM FOR:. The Director of Central Intelligence 
I [illegible]: Deputy Director (Intelligence) 


.j SUBJECT: ~ Unidentified Flying Objects 


I [illegible]: * Request of the Director of 10 December 1952 


?1. The following is a summary of the current situation with respect 
| to the investigation of unidentified flying objects. Recent 
i|; incidents include : ' i i . 


a. ' Movies of ten (10) unidentified flying ( aircraft) ^ 


on the basis of natural phenomena or known types of aircraft) , 


s-j near Trementon, Utah bn 2 July 1952. 


b. " A very brilliant unidentified light over the coast of Maine 


for about four hours on the night of 10-11 October at a height 
computed to be two or three times that which can be sustained by 
any known device. j ’ ; 


c. U- Alleged contact with a device left on the ground in Florida 


late this summer which left some presently unexplained after 
effects. 1 '■ V- 


d. - Numerous other sightings of lights or objects which either 


‘ in configuration or performance do not resemble any known aerial 
I vehicle or explainable natural phenomena. 


i 2 . In furtherance of the I/C action on 4 December , O/SI has 


${1 been working with Dr. H.P. Robertson, consultant (former _ Director of 
Research, [illegible] establishing a panel of top scientists and _ 


Fit engineers in the fields of astrophysics , nuclear energy, electronics, 
f etc. V, to review this situation. [illegible] cooperation has been 
T secured by DI/USAF and ATIC, artd a (illegible]. Dr. Robertson, and 
Mr. Durant of SI to ATIC ife planned for Friday. It . i f hoped to 
? organize the panel and undertake substantive scientific review of 
this subject within the next two to three weeks. 








[omitted] 




H. MARSHALL CHADWELL 
Assistant Director 
Scientific Intelligence 




322 






3.8.5 Technology / Science 




Testimony of Mr. Mark McCandlish, US Air Force 


December 2000 


Mark McCandlish is an accomplished aerospace illustrator and has worked for many of 
the top aerospace corporations in the United States. His colleague, Brad Sorenson, with 
whom he studied, has been inside a facility at Norton Air Force Base, where he 
witnessed alien reproduction vehicles, or ARVs, that were fully operational and 
hovering. In his testimony, you will learn that the US not only has operational 
antigravity propulsion devices, but we have had them for many, many years, and they 
have been developed through the study, in part, of extraterrestrial vehicles over the past 
fifty years. In addition, we have the drawing from aerospace inventor Brad Sorenson of 
the devices that he saw, as well as a schematic of one of these alien reproduction 
vehicles — in some remarkable detail. 




I work principally as a conceptual artist. Most of my clients are in the defense industry. I 
occasionally work directly for the military, but most the time I work for civilian corporations that 
are defense contractors and build weapons systems and things for the military. I’ve worked for all 
the major defense contractors: General Dynamics, Lockheed, Northrop, McDonald-Douglas, 
Boeing, Rockwell International, Honeywell, and Allied Signet Corporation. 


In 1967 when I was at Westover Air Force Base, one night before going to bed I saw this 
light moving across the sky; then it just kind of stopped, and there wasn’t any noise. I took the 
dog back in the house, and I brought out my telescope and watched this thing through the 
telescope for about ten minutes. In fact, it was hovering directly over the facility where they kept 
the nuclear weapons — at the storage facility near the alert hangers at Westover Air Force Base. 
It started to move off, and it moved off slowly and kind of wandered around the sky. Then, all of 
a sudden it was gone, like it had been fired out of a gun. It was out of sight in just a second or 
two. 


Well, it all started coming together when I was working at IntroVision, and John Eppolito 
talked about this interview that he had done with a person who had, for some reason, wound up 
walking up to, or near a hangar at a section of a military Air Force base. [He] had seen a flying 
saucer in a hangar, and then he was arrested — hauled off, blindfolded, and debriefed — this sort 
of thing. Then I learned that this fellow, Mark Stambough, had developed an experiment that 
created a kind of levitation. In some circles it’s been called electrogravitic levitation, or 
antigravity. 


What he did, apparently, was acquire a high voltage power source — a DC (direct current) 
power source, and he took a couple of quarter-inch-thick copper plates about a foot in diameter, 
with a lead coming out of the middle of each one at the top and the bottom. [Then], he basically 
embedded them in a type of plastic resin like polycarbonate or Plexiglas, or some other kind of 
clear resin where you could see the plates, and you could see the material. Apparently, he did 
everything he could to get all the little air bubbles and stuff out of there, so there wouldn’t be any 
pathways for the electricity to break down the material and arc through them. The experiment 
was to see how much voltage you could put on this capacitor — the sub-plate capacitor — in this 
arrangement; how much voltage could you put on this thing before the insulating material begins 
to just break down? 




323 






Well, he got up to about a million volts, and the thing would begin to float, and it floated in 
accordance with principles that had been described in a patent that was filed back in the late 
1950s/early 1960s by a gentleman called Thomas Townsend Brown. Brown and another 
individual by the name of Dr. Biefield had done this, so this effect became known as the Biefie ld- 
Brown effect. Well, [Stambough] apparently duplicated the experiments done by Biefield and 
Brown, [and] the one aspect they found about this arrangement was that the levitation or 
movement would occur in the direction of the positively-charged plate. So, if you had two plates, 
one is negative, and one is positive because of the direct current system. If you have the positive 
plate on top, it would move in that direction. If you had it on a pendulum, it would always swing 
in whatever direction the positive plate was facing. 


Later, I got a call from a kid that I had known in school, a fellow by the name of Brad 
Sorensen. He apparently had recognized my name [from some work I had done in a magazine], 
and had contacted the art director who gave him my phone number, and he called me up. It 
turned out that he had gone to work for a design firm in the Glendale/Pasadena area of California 
and ultimately wound up acquiring most of the clientele for this particular agency. 


In the process, he developed a business practice where he would create conceptual designs 
and products for different clients. The way he structured his business [was to] set it up so that if 
he came up with some new and novel design, something that was patentable, the client would pay 
to have the patent secured. Then he would agree, if the patent was in his name, to license it 
exclusively to them and no one else, and they would pay him royalties. So, he got his clients to 
pay for all these patents, and he had all these royalties coming in, and he was a millionaire before 
30. 




So, this is Brad Sorensen coming back to me eight years after school, and we’re talking, and 
he’s telling me all these interesting stories. There was an air show that was coming up at Norton 
Air Force Base, which used to be an active Air Force base right on the eastern fringe of San 
Bernardino in Southern California. 


I suggested that we get together and go to this air show. I had heard that they were going to 
have a fly-by (a flying demonstration) by the SR-71 Blackbird, and he seemed to know a lot 
about it, so I said, well, let’s do that. It turned out [that] at the last minute, the magazine Popular 
Science came back again and [told me] they had some really, really crazy deadline for another 
illustration, and they wanted to know if I could do it over the weekend, so I had to beg off on this 
air show. 


Brad had already made arrangements to go, and he was going to bring one of his clients with 
him. It turned out that this client was a tall, thin, white-haired man with glasses [and] an Italian- 
sounding last name. He was already a millionaire in his own right and was in civilian life again 
after having been either a Secretary of Defense or an Under- Secretary of Defense. Brad wanted 
me to meet this gentleman, and if I had known this at the time, I probably would have told the 
magazine to wait, because I had no idea at that point what I was going to be missing out on. 


Believe me. I’ve kicked myself ever since, because the following week, after Brad got back 
home, he called me up and told me about the air show. He told me about what he had seen there: 
apparently, right about the time the Air Force flying demonstration team, the Thunderbirds, were 
planning to begin their show, this gentleman that Brad was with said, “Follow me,” and they 
[went] walking down to the other end of the airfield, away from where the crowds were, to this 
huge hangar that’s at Norton Air Force Base. I don’t remember the building number, but it’s got 
to be one of the largest hangars in the Air Force inventory. 




324 






In fact, on the base it was called The Big Hangar. It looks like four giant Quonset hut style 
hangars that are all connected in the middle, with shops and work areas out around the edges, and 
there is sort of a divider in the middle. 


[See the testimony of Lieutenant Colonel John Williams. SG] 


This gentleman took Brad down there. He said, “I’m here to talk to the guy who is running 
the show,” so the guard goes in and out comes the same guard with a gentleman in a three-piece 
suit, who immediately recognizes this fellow that Brad is with: this fellow whom I speculate was 
probably Fra nk Carlucci. They go inside, and immediately after getting inside the door, this 
fellow apparently passes Brad off as his aide to this fellow who is managing the exhibit that’s 
going on inside this hangar. This exhibit is for some of the local politicians who are cleared for 
high security information, [plus] some of the local military officials. 


Well, as soon as they walk in, Brad is told by this fellow that he is with, “There are a lot of 
things in here that I didn’t expect they were going to have on display — stuff you probably 
shouldn’t be seeing. So, don’t talk to anybody, don’t ask any questions, just keep your mouth 
shut, smile and nod, but don’t say anything — just enjoy the show. We’re going to get out of 
here as soon as we can.” 


In the process, the host or the person running the show was very engaging with the gentleman 
that Brad was with, so they bring them in, and they are showing them everything. There was the 
losing prototype from the B-2 Stealth Bomber competition. They also had what was called the 
Lockheed Pulsar, nicknamed the Aurora. 


These things had the ability to be just about anywhere in the world 30 minutes after launch, 
with the capability of 121 nuclear warheads — you know, probably 10-15 megaton weapons — a 
tactical type nuclear reentry vehicle. 


So, getting back to Brad’s story at Norton Air Force Base: one of the other things he said 
was that after they showed them all of these aircraft, they had a big black curtain that divided the 
hangar into two different areas. Behind these curtains was another big area, and inside this area 
they had all the lights turned off; so, they go in and they turn the lights on, and here are three 
flying saucers floating off the floor — no cables suspended from the ceiling holding them up, no 
landing gear underneath — just floating, hovering above the floor. They had little exhibits with a 
videotape running, showing the smallest of the three vehicles sitting out in the desert, presumably 
over a dry lakebed — someplace like Area 51. It showed this vehicle making three little quick, 
hopping motions; then [it] accelerated straight up and out of sight, completely disappearing from 
view in just a couple of seconds — no sound, no sonic boom — nothing. 


They had a cut-away illustration, pretty much like the one I’ll show you in a little bit, that 
showed what the internal components of this vehicle were, and they had some of the panels taken 
off so you could actually look in and see oxygen tanks and a little robotic arm that could extend 
out from the side of the vehicle for collecting samples and things. So, obviously, this is a vehicle 
that not only is capable of flying around through the atmosphere, but it’s also capable of going 
out to space and collecting samples, and it’s using a type of propulsion system that doesn’t make 
any noise. As far as he could see, it had no moving parts and didn’t have any exhaust gases or 
fuel to be expended — it was just there hovering. 


So, he listened intently and collected as much information as he could, and when he came 
back, he told me how he had seen these three flying saucers in this hangar at Norton Air Force 




325 






Base on November 12, 1988 — it was a Saturday. He said that the smallest was somewhat bell- 
shaped. They were all identical in shape and proportion, except that there were three different 
sizes. The smallest, at its widest part, was flat on the bottom, somewhat bell-shaped, and had a 
dome or a half of a sphere on top. The sides were sloping at about a 35-degree angle from pure 
vertical. 


The panels that were around the skirt had been removed, so he could see one of these big 
oxygen tanks inside. He was very specific in describing the oxygen tanks as being about 1 6 to 18 
inches in diameter, about 6 feet long, and they were all radially-oriented, like the spokes of a 
wheel. This dome that was visible on the top was actually the upper half of a big sphere-shaped 
crew compartment that was in the middle of the vehicle, and around the middle of this vehicle 
was actually a large plastic casting that had this big set of copper coils in it. He said it was about 
18 inches wide at the top, and about 8 to 9 inches thick. It had maybe 15 to 20 stacked layers of 
copper coils inside of it. 


The bottom of the vehicle was about 11 or 12 inches thick. In both cases, the coil and this 
large disc at the bottom were like a big plastic casting — sort of a greenish-blue, clear plastic, or 
it might have been glass. I determined, using my conceptual artist skills, that there were exactly 
48 sections like thin slices of pizza pie, and each section within this casting probably weighed 
four or five tons, judging by the thickness and the diameter. It must have been monstrous in 
weight. It was full of half-inch-thick copper plates, and each of the 48 sections had 8 copper 
plates. 


So, here we are back to the plate capacitors again, and the prospect of someone finding a way 
to use the Biefield-Brown effect — this levitation effect where you charge a capacitor to lift 
towards a positive plate. Now, when you’ve got eight plates stacked up in there, they alternate. It 
goes: negative positive, negative, positive, negative, positive — four times, so you ultimately 
wind up with the positive plates always being above a set of negative plates as you go up. 


On the inside of the crew compartment was a big column that ran down through the middle, 
and there were four ejection seats mounted back-to-back on the upper half of this column. Then, 
right in the middle of the column, was a large flywheel of some kind. 


Well, this craft was what they called the Alien Reproduction Vehicle; it was also nicknamed 
the Flux Liner. This antigravity propulsion system — this flying saucer — was one of three that 
were in this hangar at Norton Air Force Base. [Its] synthetic vision system [used] the same kind 
of technology as the gun slaving system they have in the Apache helicopter: if [the pilot] wants to 
look behind him, he can pick a view in that direction, and the cameras slew in pairs. [The pilot] 
has a little screen in front of his helmet, and it gives him an alternating view. He [also] has a little 
set of glasses that he wears — in fact, you can actually buy a 3-D viewing system for your video 
camera now that does this same thing — so when he looks around, he has a perfect 3-D view of 
the outside, but no windows. So, why do they have no windows? Well, it’s probably because the 
voltages that we’re talking about [being] used in this system were probably something between, 
say, half a million and a million volts of electricity. 


Now, he said there were three vehicles. The first one — the smallest, the one that was 
partially taken apart, the one that was shown in the video that was running in this hangar 
November 12, 1988 at Norton Air Force Base — was about 24 feet in diameter at its widest part, 
right at the base. The next biggest one was 60 feet in diameter at the base. 




326 






Now, I started looking at the design of this thing, and it occurred to me that what 1 was 
looking at was a huge Tesla coil, which is kind of like an open-air transformer. What happens is 
that when you pass electricity through this large diameter coil, it creates a field. 


That’s what this system does: it takes electricity, using two large 24-volt marine-style 
batteries. You basically use that to somehow put an alternating current through these windings. 
[Then], you step up that electricity through the secondary coil, which is on the column in the 
middle, and you get this extremely high voltage. You can selectively put the voltage on any of 
these 48 capacitor sections. 


Well, why would you want to do that? If you’re using just a normal Tesla coil, you usually 
have maybe one or two capacitors in the whole system. But, you’re talking about a different type 
of capacitor here — you’re talking about capacitors that are made up of plates — plates that are 
shaped like long, thin triangles, and they are all radially-oriented just like the spokes of a wheel, 
just like the oxygen tanks, just like the field lines from that large diameter coil. As you look at 
this system, if you’re an electrician or just somebody who knows a little bit about Tesla coils and 
the way they are set up, you begin to realize that the orientation of components is really the key to 
making the system work. 


Why so many different capacitor sections? If you just have one big disc like Mark 
Stambough did with his experiment at the University of [Arizona] — which, by the way, was 
confiscated by men claiming to be from the government and claiming privilege under the 
National Security Act. They took all this stuff, interviewed all the people that saw the 
experiments, and told everybody to keep their mouths shut and not talk about it. But, I heard 
about it from his roommate who knew what had happened. [Anyway], in that case, you have 
levitation, but you don’t get any control. You have this thing floating around, and it’s just sort of 
floating on whatever this field is that it’s producing, but you don’t have any control. 


So, what happens? You break that disc up into 48 different sections, and then you can decide 
how much electricity you want to put on this side or over there on that side, so you can control 
the amount of electricity and the amount of thrust and vectoring that you get. You can make it go 
straight up, you can make it ha nk and turn and pitch — whatever you want to, by virtue of the 
fact that you can control where the electricity goes in those 48 different sections. If you ever take 
a circle and divide it up into 48 equal sections, you’ll find that those are really thin little slices. 
So, you have these 48 individual capacitors, and you have one big Tesla coil. You’ve got to have 
some kind of a rotating spark gap, just like the distributor in your car, that sends the electricity out 
to each of those sections. Then, you have to have some way of controlling how much electricity 
goes to each one. 


[A disc-shaped craft like this has omnidirectional movement — it isn ’t limited to moving in 
one direction like a jet with a nose and a tail. LW, after talking to McCandlish.] 


Now, when Brad described the control system, he said that on the one side there was this big 
high-voltage potentiometer — it’s like a rheostat, a big controller. It allows you to put 
progressively more electricity through the system as you push the lever. On the other side of the 
control system, there was a sort of a metallic bar that came up like a stork’s neck, and right at the 
very tip of it was a sort of metallic-looking ball. Attached to that ball was a kind of a bowl that 
seemed to just hang off the bottom of the ball, almost like it was magnetically attached to it. He 
said the whole thing would just sit there, and it would kind of rock and list, almost like a large 
ship at anchor in a harbor on the ocean, floating on the water. It was literally on a sea of energy. 




327 






Dr. John Moray did experiments with different kinds of energy — something that may have 
been scalar energy — back in the early 1920s or the 1930s, I believe it was. He wrote a book 
called The Sea of Energy, and he describes this type of energy. Brad said that when this thing 
was moving around, the system wasn’t energized to its full strength, so components inside the 
ship were still subject to some influence by gravity. He [said] as it would start to list in one 
direction, the bowl, because of the influence of gravity, would swing in the same direction. As it 
started to tilt, it would slide over and it would power up the system on that side, and it would 
bring it back to a righted position all by itself. Completely unmanned, it would sit there, and it 
would correct itself just while it was sitting there. 


It was all linked fiber-optically. Well, why would that make any difference? Why would you 
want to have a system that’s all linked fiber-optically? The reason is that if you find a way to 
control gravity, you reduce the mass of it. If you are able to do that, what are the other side 
benefits? What if you somehow found a way of tapping into this scalar field, this zero-point 
energy? If what the scientists believe is true, then the zero-point energy is actually what keeps 
the electrons around the atomic structure of everything in our universe. It keeps them energized 
— it keeps those little electrons spinning in their different clouds around the nucleus of every 
atom in our world. It keeps them going, keeps them from crashing into the nucleus like a satellite 
orbiting the Earth gets pulled into the atmosphere by gravitational drag. Well, if you have a way 
of interfering with that interaction, that absoiption of zero-point energy by those electrons, they 
begin to slow down. 


Every atom in the universe is just like a little gyroscope: it’s got all these electrons spinning 
around the nucleus, and they have a gyroscopic effect, which is the effect we call inertia and 
mass. We have one nucleus with a proton and a neutron and one electron — hydrogen — 
spinning around like that: not very much mass, not too much inertia. If you take uranium 235, 
[with] 235 electrons all spinning around in their different clouds, there is a lot of mass; there is a 
lot of inertia, because it’s like a bigger gyroscope, in a way. At least, that’s the analogy that I’ve 
kind of picked up here. But, if you have a way of interfering with that absoiption of zero-point 
energy so those electrons become de-energized, they begin to slow down. The effect of that 
inertia, that gyroscopic effect, begins to drop off, and the mass drops off too, even though the 
atomic structure is intact; and it’s still there — it’s still uranium, but it’s not as heavy. 


One of the things Einstein said was that you could never accelerate anything up to and past 
the speed of light. If you did, you would have to have all the energy in the universe, because as 
you accelerate through space, mass increases. One of the old films showing this concept shows a 
train going faster and faster towards the speed of light, but the train keeps getting bigger and 
bigger until the engine just can’t pull it, so it can never pass the speed of light. 


But, what if you have a system, a device, that absorbs that zero-point energy and prevents it 
from interacting with the atomic structure of the vehicle? And at the same time, it’s providing 
additional power to the capacitor section — this whole electrical system that is going on in the 
vehicle, that’s running. In effect, the faster you go, the easier it becomes to go up to and exceed 
the speed of light. 


Brad said that in this exhibit at Norton Air Force Base, a three star general said that these 
vehicles were capable of doing light speed or better. Oh, by the way, the largest of these vehicles 
was about 120 to 130 feet in diameter. I mean, that’s massive when you think about it — it’s just 
huge. 




328 






There is a scientist in Utah by the name of Moray B. King — he wrote a book called Tapping 
the Zero Point Energy. What he maintains is that this energy is embedded in space-time all 
around us; it’s in everything we see. I think it was James Clerk Maxwell who speculated that 
there’s enough of this flux, this electrical charge, in the nothingness of space, that if you could 
capture all the energy that was embedded in just a cubic yard of space, you’d have enough energy 
to boil the oceans of the entire world. That’s how much energy is sitting there waiting to be 
tapped. Now, one of the things that Moray B. King said was that the best way to tap that energy 
is by driving it out of equilibrium. It’s just like a bunch of cigarette smoke in a box, but if you 
somehow send a shockwave through it, you can get force — you can get ripples through it. Then, 
if you have a way of collecting that energy at the other end, you have a way of tapping into it and 
using it. 


This Alien Reproduction Vehicle, this Flux Liner, has a way of doing that somehow, 
electronically. Now, Brad had described the fact that this central column has a kind of vacuum 
chamber in it. The vacuum chamber is one of the things that all of these scientists describe in 
these over-unity or free energy devices they build. They all have some kind of vacuum tubes, 
vacuum technology. 


Brad maintained that inside this big vacuum chamber in the central column that’s inside 
everything else — inside the flywheel, inside the secondary coils of the Tesla coil, inside the crew 
compartment — there is mercury vapor. Mercury vapor will conduct electricity, but it produces 
all kinds of ionic effects. These little molecules of mercury become charged in unusual ways, and 
if you fire a tremendous amount of electricity through mercury vapor that’s in a partial vacuum, 
there is something special, something unusual that happens in that process. 


I believe it’s the process that Moray [King] came to describe when he [proposed] driving the 
energy in the vacuum out of equilibrium, putting some kind of a shockwave through it. 


Now, the other thing that I believe happens here, is that as this system begins to tap into this 
zero-point energy and is drawing it away from the local environment, the whole craft becomes 
lighter in weight — it becomes partially mass-canceled, if you will, which is one of the reasons 
why just a little bit of energy in the capacitors could shoot it all over the place. 


One of the things that 1 believe happens, is when you take a system like this and you fire it 
up, everything in the system starts to become mass-canceled. The next thing that happens is that 
the electrons that are flowing through the system also become mass-canceled. What does that 
mean? It means as that system and all the electrons flowing through that big Tesla coil become 
mass-canceled, it also becomes the perfect super-conductor, which means the efficiency of the 
systems goes right through the ceiling. You get dramatic efficiency, just like the whole thing was 
dunked into liquid nitrogen or made out of pure silver or pure gold, which at certain temperatures 
are perfect conductors — it becomes lighter and can accelerate at incredible speeds. 


[The faster it goes, the lighter it gets, and the faster it’s able to go. LW, after talking to 
McCandlish] 


In 1992, 1 met a man named Kent Sellen and, as it turned out, Kent Sellen and I had a mutual 
friend: a fellow by the name of Bill Scott, or William Scott, who was a local editor for a trade 
publication called Aviation Week and Space Technology. 


Bill Scott used to be a test pilot at Edwards Air Force Base back in the early 1970s, and Kent 
Sellen had been a crew chief working on the plane that Bill Scott flew. So I was talking to Kent 
Sellen about this and he nodded his head and smiled a big wide grin, and he winked and he kind 




329 






of said, “Yes, I know what you’re talking about.” I [asked], how do you know what I’m talking 
about? And he [said] “Because I’ve seen one.” At that point, I keyed in on something that John 
Eppolito of IntroVision had told me about something in a hangar — something that someone had 
seen in a hangar. 


So, I [asked] Kent, when I’m meeting him at this air show at Edwards in 1992, was it flat on 
the bottom and had sloping sides and a dome on the top and little camera things? And he said, 
“Oh, you’ve seen one?” I said, let me borrow your pen. I took out a little piece of paper, drew a 
sketch, and I [asked] does it look like that? He said, “Yes, that’s it — that’s what it looks like.” I 
[asked] when did you see this? He [replied], “I saw it in 1973.” I [asked] where, when did you 
see it? He [responded], “I was a crew chief, [and] I worked on Bill Scott’s plane when he was a 
test pilot.” 


He [told me] one night [his] shift supervisor [had told him], “Go out to North Base — they’ve 
got a ground power unit for an aircraft that’s leaking or failed or something, so we need you to 
take a tow vehicle out there. Go out, pick it up, bring it back, drop it off at the repair depot; then 
you can go for the night, because we’ve finished all our other work.” Well, instead of going 
around the big perimeter road that goes up to the main entrance of North Base, Kent Sellen drove 
straight across the dry lake bed at Edwards to the North Base facility. He [came] up off the dry 
lake bed, [rolled] right up on the tarmac, and [was] going down these rows of hangars — they 
[were] all Quonset-style hangars back then. He [stopped] in front of the first one with the doors 
cracked, expecting to find this defective ground power unit, and what [did] he see? He [saw] this 
flying saucer sitting in the hangar, hovering off the ground. 


This brings me back to John Eppolito’s story about a guy who saw a UFO in a hangar 
sometime prior to 1982, when I met him. I [asked], what happened? He [said], “This thing was 
flat on the bottom, [with] sloping sides, little cameras in these little plastic domes all over, [and] 
there was a door on the side. I wasn’t there for 15 seconds, [when] I heard footsteps running up 
to me, and before I could even turn around and look, there was a machine gun barrel at my 
throat.” A gruff voice [said], “Close your eyes and get on the ground, or we’re going to blow your 
head off.” 


They put a hood over his head, blindfolded him, hauled him off, and they spent 18 hours 
debriefing him. While they did, they told him things about this vehicle that my buddy Brad 
didn’t even know. 


Brad had said that all of the components in the system were off-the-shelf components — 
things that you could find right in the inventory. They [had] their own oxygen supply, and he 
[said] they [ejected] once they [got] below 15,000 feet. The individual seats [came] down off this 
central column on a set of rails, just like little railroad cars. They [came] off one-by-one, and the 
parachutes [came] out, and away they [went], 


I looked at all this information that I got from Brad, [and] I realized there [was] a mechanical 
arm that [could] extend out from these little trap doors that [opened] up on the side of the vehicle. 
It [was] obvious that these things [were] capable of space travel. 10 [or] 15 years ago, I was 
talking to Tom Bearden about scalar effects. One of the things that he said, just off the top of his 
head, was, “Have you ever wondered why the NASA budget has been cut back so severely? It’s 
because they’ve got all this other technology that is so much better, so much faster. They are so 
much better than rocket-propelled spaceships that take months, sometimes years, to get to the 
outer reaches of the solar system. Why would you put millions and millions of dollars [into] what 
[amounts to] a public works program for scientists? Why invest all that money when you have 




330 






this classified system that’s used exclusively by the National Security Agency, the CIA, or Air 
Force Intelligence? It will go anywhere in the solar system in hours, compared to months or 
years. Why spend all that money on NASA when you’ve got something that will go there right 
now?” 


When people speculate that there [might] be manned bases on the back side of the moon or 
there might be bases on Mars, I can tell you that I am almost positive that that’s true. In fact, I 
am positive that it’s true. 


I have met another man who knows about these things. He said, “I work at the B-2 bomber 
facility out at Plant 42 in Palmdale and Lancaster. Catty-comer across from the big production 
facility for the B-2 bomber, down at the southwest comer of the field is the Lockheed 
Skunkworks — it’s that huge complex down there.” I said, yes, I know exactly where that is. He 
[said] “In the summer of 1992, 1 was outside about 10:30 at night, because I work a late shift and 
was smoking a cigarette, and I noticed that the sheriffs deputies were blocking off all of the 
streets surrounding Plant 42. They do that anytime there is a classified aircraft that is coming in 
to land or is departing from Plant 42.” 


He [continued], “I noticed all the streets being blocked off, and sitting out in front of this 
hangar [was] this circular formation of vehicles — but they [were] really weird vehicles. They 
[were] like a little tractor with a turret on it, and the turret [had] a big mechanical arm with a 
basket on the end of it. It’s the kind of thing that electrical linemen use to work on high-tension 
power lines, but the baskets [were] all up in the air, and strung from each one of the baskets in 
this big circle is this big black curtain that [came] down, and there [was] a rope that [tied] them 
all together.” 


He said, “I looked up above the circular vehicle, and at about 500 feet was this big, black 
lens-shaped flying saucer, just sitting there above the vehicles. Out of the midst of this group of 
vehicles [came] a man with a big blue-green handheld flashlight. [He shined] it up at the vehicle 
and [flashed] it three times. There were three blue-green lights underneath the vehicle, and they 
[flashed back] at him three times.” 


“Then this thing [lowered] down into [the] cluster of vehicles. The arms all [extended] out 
over the center and [covered] this craft all up with the curtain — then they all [trundled] into the 
hangar. The doors [closed], lights [came] on, [and] the sheriffs [left].” He said he smoked a lot 
of cigarettes for the next week after that, waiting to see something else, and a week later his 
patience was rewarded when the whole process reversed itself. He said that the lights [went] out, 
the doors [opened], [and] this cluster of vehicles [came] out. The arms all [stood] up, and after a 
while, this thing silently [rose] up to about 500 feet above the vehicles. The guy [came] out with 
the flashlight, [flashed] three times, [and] it [flashed] its lights at him three times. 


Then he said this thing took off, [covering] the entire length of the runway, which is right 
next to the B-2 facility. It went past him and disappeared into the dark in under two seconds — 
and this vehicle did it without any noise, without any supersonic shockwave, no sonic boom, 
nothing — just like it had been fired from a canon. He said it changed [his] life. It changed [his] 
whole perspective, because then he [knew they had] anti-gravity — massless propulsion. He 
[said they had] technology that they might have even recovered from some kind of a spacecraft 
that came from God-knows-where — some other star system — but, he [said] the fact [was they 
had] it. 




331 






We have found a patent filed by a James King Jr., and this patent looks just like this system 
except that instead of having a dome for a crew compartment, it has a cylinder in the center. [It 
has] the same shape, the flat bottom, [and] the sloping sides. It has the coils around the 
circumference, [and] it has the capacitor plates that are all radially-oriented. This patent was filed 
initially in 1 960 [and] was secured in 1 967 — the same year that a photo was taken near Provo, 
Utah that looks just like [this craft]. 


The clincher is the guy who filed the patent worked with Townsend Brown. Townsend 
Brown had worked at a laboratory near Princeton, New Jersey with a scientist by the name of 
Agnew Bahnson in the Bahnson Laboratories. They did all these experiments that they were 
calling electrogravitic propulsion. There is [a] video that was converted from the 16-millimeter 
film that was shot by Agnew Bahnson’s daughter. Originally it was called “Daddy’s 
Laboratory”, and it shows all these experiments that Bahnson and Thomas Townsend Brown did, 
along with their assistant James King [J. Fra nk King], who filed the patent. That film shows little 
discs levitating and shooting off sparks and stuff. So, it all kind of comes full circle. 


You see that now, they not only have the technology, they’ve got the technology in 
deployment. Not only does it fly but it looks just like the patents that were filed back in the 
1960s — the same year the photos were taken near Area 51 — between Area 5 1 and Provo, Utah, 
by a military pilot. It shows all the same features; it shows all the same shapes. So, the bottom 
line for me is that regardless of whether you understand all the fine points of the technology, the 
technology exists and there are people that have seen it. I have seen these things myself, so to me 
it’s just really a matter of time before they bring this technology out of the black and begin to let 
us use it for other things like pollution- free production of energy. You could probably take a 
couple of little things that look like those flying saucers and put them around a crank shaft and 
use them to drive an engine, pollution-free — no use of fuel. 


Anyway, the only other thing that I could say, is that when I was talking about the fiber optic 
control system, that’s also one of the things that goes back to the original Roswell account that 
there were all these little fibers with light going through them, and they couldn’t explain what this 
stuff was. Well, why would you need a fiber optic system in a spaceship? If, suddenly, 
everything in the vehicle becomes mass-canceled, and even the electrons become mass-canceled, 
it means that all of the telemetry that’s going through your system is going to go haywire. It’s 
going to be like, suddenly, the system goes through a phase change, and everything is super- 
conducting. So, you have to have some way of maintaining the same level of control for your 
spark gaps — the control of the amount of electricity that goes out of the capacitors — so that 
when you change the control stick, you still get the same amount of movement and deflection in 
the system, even when you go into a state of mass-cancellation or partial mass-cancellation, 
because the electrons are also mass-canceled, so they become super-conducting circuits. 


Why use fiber optics? Because photons have no mass, so they are unaffected. That means 
any information, any telemetry that you send back and forth to your computer gets there. It 
doesn’t matter if the computer functions at the super-conducting level, because it just makes it 
faster, more efficient, smarter. You want to be able to control the aircraft so it doesn’t crash, and 
what’s the best way to do it? With fiber optics. 




332 








333 
















Testimony of Professor Paul Czysz 


November 2000 




Dr. Paul Czysz is a Professor of Aeronautical Engineering at Parks College in St. Louis. 
He spent 8 years in the Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and another 30 
years working for McDonnell-Douglas in the field of exotic technologies. While at 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, he was involved in tracking UFOs over Missouri, 
Ohio, and Michigan. These UFOs were seen my many people: military, local police, 
and civilians, and were clocked at speeds around 20,000 MPH as they performed 
unusual, silent maneuvers. Dr. Czysz spent more than half his career at McDonnell- 
Douglas working on classified and compartmentalized projects, and testifies to the 
processes involved in maintaining secrecy on these projects. He warns against the 
human tendency to make every new technology into a weapon, pointing out that our 
weaponization of space does not address the threat of Earth terrorists, and the idea of 
using these weapons against extraterrestrial targets would be suicidal. 




PC: Prof. Paul Czysz I: Interviewer 


PC: I’ m a graduate of Parks College. I started in the Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air 
Force Base and was in the Air Force for two years, [plus] stayed an additional six years working 
in research. Then I returned to McDonnell-Douglas and stayed there for thirty years. I finally 
ended up at Parks College again as an endowed Chair. 


At McDonnell-Douglas, we did lot of high-speed work — hypersonics. We worked on things 
that flew from Mach 4 to Mach 12, and had some airplanes that flew Mach 12 all the way around 
the world. We almost built it. 


One of the more interesting nights I had at Wright-Patterson was when I was the assistant to 
the head officer-of-the-day over at Patterson Field. We had 151 phone calls come in regarding 
unidentified objects flying down U.S. 40 — then turning at Columbus and going up to Detroit. 
These [calls] were [from] state policemen, some doctors that worked late at night, all kinds of 
people that reported seeing this. We had radar tracks on them and had airliners call in that they 
had seen them. It was very, very interesting. These guys gave very clear descriptions of what 
they saw. 


You know, probably more than half of my career was in projects that were classified or 
compartmentalized. 


I: Can you describe how that process works? 


PC: Generally, depending on the level of the compartmentalization and the secrecy level, 
you have to go through a fairly significant background check. It takes between six months to a 
year to get the background checks. Then, when you do that, if you’re in a very tight 
compartment, you sign a statement that you will not divulge the existence of the project or even 
answer a question that could acknowledge the existence of the project. It’s not even on a need-to- 
know basis; it’s on the basis of people being identified specifically to know what you’re working 
on and [who are] directly associated with the project, so it’s very closely-contained material. 




334 






If you have a covert project, the funding would come through a number of government 
sources, none of which would be identified to the workers. Whatever high-level people were 
involved in it — even they might not know where the funding came from. It’s just that you sign a 
contract with the U.S. government, and the funding would show up at the right place at the right 
time. 


If there were non-Earthbound sources of the information, the people who were doing the 
design work or doing the analysis work would never have any idea of where it [the materiel] 
came from. All you would have to do is visit Russia to see how they did it. They would 
compartmentalize every project into what I used to call silos, and they would have a colonel or a 
general sitting on top of that, and literally, they could not talk to anyone outside of that silo. If 
someone else needed help, one person would be sent over to another place, sit down at a desk, 
look at a piece of paper, say, “Yes, I know what that problem is; here’s the answer to it,” and 
walk away. He would not even know what it was that he was working on. 


The giant triangles that appear over Palmdale move very slowly — they’re very large and 
very slow-moving. That’s different, I think, [from] the ones that appear all over Belgium and that 
are very fast-moving. 


You can’t explain that in conventional physics. By conventional physics, I mean engines and 
jet engines and rocket motors and propulsion systems as we know them today. You put fuel in, 
you bum something, and it produces thrust and accelerates an object. In conventional physics, 
you cannot explain how human beings could live long enough to go much beyond the edge of our 
little solar system. 


So, in conventional terms, no, you can’t explain it. It has to be related to quantum physics, in 
which things can appear to be almost two places at the same time, and appear and reappear just 
like positrons and electrons do in some of the high-energy particle colliders. It’s a coupling of the 
device with the energy that permeates space. Probably Tesla was close to it when he said that if 
given the right energy system, the right electromagnetic spectrum, he could power a human base 
on Mars from Earth, without any loss of energy. In quantum physics and zero-point energy, 
that’s a possibility. 


Sakharov and others were working on this and made very convincing arguments that the 
fabric of space is like an ocean, an energy ocean, in which solid energy is floating, and solid 
energy is the mass. If that’s true, then gravity waves exist, and in fact, everything goes back to 
Heavyside’s [phonetic spelling] equations. Here, the quantum is now not mass, but time. If 
that’s true, then you look at the whole universe in a different light. A lot of things become 
possible, that we think impossible within our current understanding of what time and space and 
thrust and force are. 


If these UFOs come from another part of the universe, it must involve something like this. 
Even our galaxy is about 100,000 light years across. All of the conventional thrust and force 
mechanisms that we conceive of just won’t work in terms of human timeframes. If people are 
here from another civilization, then they’ve understood the finer points of quantum physics. 


When I was at Wright-Patterson, we had the flying saucers that covered the distance from 
Columbus to Detroit in something like the equivalent of about 20,000 miles an hour. Back then, I 
don’t think anyone in the ordinary aerospace business would have had any knowledge of quantum 
physics or wormholes or the types of things we know now. But, if you went to CERN now and 
talked to the particle physicists, they would tell you certainly, some of this was possible, because 
they see it all the time. Where they think they see mass, they really see energy frozen in a time 




335 






quantum. What they’re seeing is really a frozen bundle of energy. It moves back and forth 
almost without any restrictions. 


The UFOs weren’t phenomena that were [just] people’s imagination. Whatever they saw was 
real; I couldn’t explain how it was real, what made it real, but I think they saw what they saw. 


Near St. Louis, there was a fairly large triangular object seen, and it traveled the distance 
down to south St. Louis. In some of its sightings, it was moving relatively benignly, but then it 
literally jumped about 20 miles in a couple of seconds. I received a lot of phone calls from the 
local newspapers and TV stations, asking how that could be done. I said, I don’t know how it 
can, unless you explain it through something like a quantum physics explanation of time and 
space and relationships that gave you time and space travel. Other than that, there’s no way to 
do that. And, this object made no sound at all. It starts out at hover, and it literally almost 
disappears and pops over here — so it’s not like a cartoon where it goes “whoosh.” It’s almost 
like it disappears and comes up over here, according to the descriptions that some of the police 
officers gave. 


The hard part is to find a way to physically do that. There are people who have been 
experimenting with zero-point energy, or who tried to tap zero-point energy for years. Every 
once-in-a-while, someone will do it accidentally. They’ll call it cold fusion, but I don’t think it’s 
cold fusion; I just think it’s a zero-point energy tap. Except for three people that I know, no one 
has been able to control it. When it happens, it happens for a short period of time and it’s almost 
always destructive. It’s like drilling a hole into the base of Grand Coulee Dam, and all of a 
sudden a jet of water comes out that literally has enough pressure to cut you in half. Without a 
valve on it, you can’t shut it off. 


There’s one guy that a friend of mine actually visited in Ann Arbor, Michigan, who I 
consider a mathematical genius, and who actually figured out a way to control it. He was 
terrified that someone would kill him for the knowledge that he had and the ability to tap this 
whenever he chose to, and control it. We haven’t seen him in five years; we don’t know where 
he is. 


Today you’ve got an energy problem with the price of oil. What do you think would happen 
if you introduced the ability to tap this zero-point energy? Zero-point energy represents about 40- 
50 megawatts of power per cubic inch of space. That’s a lot of power. If you could tap it at will, 
then no one would have to sell gasoline or oil anymore. You would just tap into it. It would be 
like going out to the Great Lakes and taking out one drop and using it — you’d hardly miss it. 
And, since it permeates the whole universe and it continually fluctuates as matter-antimatter 
interaction, it’s not like it’s a steady lake. It’s a pool the size of the universe. So, for what we 
would use it for, you’d never even miss it. 


This one researcher claimed if you bottle it and move it to another location and release it, 
you’d create a tear in the time domain of local space and actually cause a problem, which he 
claims he did, and he will never do it again. 


Also, it doesn’t work in conventional jet engines. One has to create an actual zero-point 
energy engine to do that. This researcher in Ann Arbor, Michigan had one running in his 
basement. It was not connected to any power source whatsoever, sitting in the middle of a table, 
and it had been running for a year. 




336 






But, none of these researchers would have an inkling of how you would build a ship the size 
of a football field and make it move at the speeds that apparently it [the one near St. Louis] 
moved. Speed’s actually the wrong word, because conventionally, we think of this as speeding 
through space, but what if it really acts like some of the high-energy particles at CERN? They 
really transfer into energy and reappear over here, and there was no mass that went anywhere — 
because all mass is solid energy. The conventional wisdom is that a complex organic structure 
like [a human] cannot transfer back and forth from energy to solid, but that’s just because we’ve 
never seen it done. 


What you represent is solid energy. You think you’re solid, right? In fact, the distance 
between the atoms in your body [is] almost exactly relatively proportional to the same distance as 
the planets around the sun. So, if you could look at your individual atoms, you would be 98 
percent space. If you were the equivalent of a neutron star, which is only the nucleus and the 
electrons compressed, you would fit on the point of a pin. When you really get down to what 
you’re made out of, the total state of you is on the point of a pin. 


James S. McDonnell [who founded McDonnell-Douglas Aircraft] actually had an institute to 
study paranormal psychology. That’s why his airplanes were named Banshee and Phantom. He 
was an Irishman who was very much interested in the spiritual world and the paranormal, and he 
had part of his research department working with [his] foundation to study the paranormal. 


[See the testimony of Dr. Robert Wood confirming this. SG] 


The “Great Randi”, the magician, infiltrated his organization and actually, for about six 
months, did sleight-of-hand experiments to [deceive] him. There would be something really 
there, and then he’d discredit it — the head of the research department eventually would not even 
talk about anything related to this. 


The guy in Ann Arbor that had the zero-point energy machine actually came to McDonnell- 
Douglas. He and his partners came in, and they were going to talk about this hydrogen motor that 
they had. I got invited to the meeting, and about halfway through it, I just said, guys, you have a 
zero-point energy machine — why don’t you admit it? The head of the research department who 
was discredited [by Randi] was put off when the inventors discussed this. [He] had the guards 
come in and escort them off the plant, because the head of research was just so terrified of this 
happening again — he thought it was pseudoscience. I said, it’s not pseudoscience; it’s just 
beyond what we know right now. 


[There are many accounts of people infiltrating operations to discredit or spin an area of 
research so it is ridiculed, thus keeping it out of mainstream development and acceptance. SG] 


Parapsychology — how do you measure it? The only people I know that have come close are 
the Russians in their parapsychology institutes, most of which are all now defunct. They had 
some very interesting twins that they were doing experiments with: they were measuring 
something that was occurring between the two of them, in their brains, so they could actually 
know what the other one was thinking. It’s utterly amazing — the spectrum of electromagnetics 
that are going on inside the brain. 


The Russians have done a lot with what’s called scalar waves and different spectrum 
electromagnetics within the brain. They’re convinced that you can explain parapsychology, if 
you could ever find out what it is that you’d have to measure to prove that it’s occurring. But, 
they just got to the edge of perhaps measuring something. 




337 






It’s all based on physics. If it’s scalar waves, then you’re in a whole other avenue of physics 
that [is] very controversial. Tesla was very, very much into those. The difficulty with Tesla, is 
that when he passed away, J. Edgar Hoover came in and confiscated almost everything. When 
his maid discovered him dead, she didn’t discover him dead alone — she discovered five FBI 
agents in his room pilfering everything, and he was [lying] on the bed dead. His nephew sued the 
U.S. government and won back, theoretically, all of his equipment, experiments, and records. 


[See government documents at the end of this interview! SG] 


There were, theoretically, fifty boxes [of records, etc.], but they only got forty-five of those in 
Belgrade. The other five are missing, and a whole bunch of stuff is missing. 


We also found a record of a submarine that was in the Mediterranean in 1917 [or] 1918. 
Tesla, in New Jersey, put one of these antennas in the ocean, right off the coast, and [one] on the 
shore. He’s holding a conversation with the captain of the submarine — one of the guys actually 
dug out of the Navy records the log of the submarine, and it essentially says: some idiot who’s 
claiming he is in New Jersey is talking to me; he must be absolutely crazy because I know I am 
100 feet underwater, and no one can be talking to me from New Jersey — and he had the 
matching language in Tesla’s logbook. So, what was that? People say no — it was an accident, it 
was a coincidence, etc., but there are a lot of things we can’t explain that people have actually 
done. 


Back when I was a young engineer at McDonnell in the 1960s, we routinely designed for the 
Air Force and the Navy airplanes that flew at Mach 4 and 6. The Vietnam War interfered with 
most of that, but we had running engines that would fly Mach 6, easily. We actually had tested 
engines that would fly the Mach 12 airplanes. In fact, in 1966 a fellow by the name of Bill Esher 
— he’s still alive, working for SAIC in Huntsville — had on the test stand an engine that was 
within 5 percent of predicted performance of Mach 8 conditions at about 120,000 feet, and it ran 
for about 20 minutes. We were convinced we could build them then. What’s fascinating is I got 
to see the X-33 a couple weeks ago. They had this new breakthrough — a new shingle 
technology that allowed the inside of the airplane to be room temperature, while the shingles 
reflect the heat. We built almost exactly the same structure in 1965 and tested it to Mach 12 
conditions. It is a little bit more elegant than what we had, because they have more elegant 
materials these days, but we were convinced we could do it then. People laugh at you and say, no 
you couldn’t, or no, it’s impossible, we’re not going to do that because it’s risky. But no, it 
wasn’t risky, and yes, it could be done. All it takes is a dreamer. 


Can you imagine the Wright brothers if one was a lawyer, and one was an accountant? They 
would say: “Why do you have to build a stupid airplane? It only carries one person. Who’s 
going to buy it; what kind of profit margin are we going to get? We’ve got 40 percent on 
bicycles; what are we doing this for? Think of the liability — everybody can sue us. It’s a bad 
idea; let’s not do it.” As long as we have that mind-set, we’re stuck. What you have to say is: 
“By gosh, it’s something that no one’s ever done before; let’s try it.” 


If I were to look at [the period of time] since my first introduction to UFOs as a young 
lieutenant, to today, I would say there’s a large number of covert projects that go on in the United 
States that none of us are ever aware of. If you saw some of those things, they would probably 
bend your mind, and they would not fit your conception of what an airplane is — so it seems to 
you to be a UFO. So, maybe a large fraction of those [suspected UFOs] are covert projects that 
we’re doing, or someone’s doing, that are Earthbound [technologies]. If you really knew what 
was behind them, you would say, yes, I can see how that works. 




338 






[See the testimony of Mark McCandlish regarding functioning antigravity vehicles made by 
humans, and which could easily be misidentified as extraterrestrial vehicles. It is clear from 
many insiders with whom I have spoken that we have both man-made exotic craft as well as ET 
craft — and they are all called UFOs. SGJ 


I think it’s like Project Bluebook: there’s this hardcore 10-15 percent, or 20 percent, that 
don’t fit any explanation other than the fact that the beings that are in the UFOs came here by 
way of a process that we’re not familiar with — and that is time-space travel. I firmly believe 
that some of those are like that. 


Almost anything you can think of can be turned around and used as a weapon. When you get 
into this kind of energy, and energy-time transitions, they can be used to just wipe out whole 
segments of the population on the Earth — and they can be made to liberate us from all 
dependence on fossil fuels. 


[It is obvious that in order for humanity to continue with adequate technologies for long-term 
sustainability, peace is the first requirement. We are clearly at the point in our evolution where 
the option to use such technologies for war means the end of our civilization. SG] 


First of all, the ballistic missile defense system is probably a pipe dream, in the sense that 
what it’s designed for is assuming that you know where [the threat] is coming from. When we 
had Russia, there was a 50-50 chance that you knew about where it would be coming from. With 
the rogue nations that we have today, it’s absolutely ludicrous. The threat is the guy who walks 
in with the briefcase — remember that in the 1950s, they built a nuclear warhead that has an 
eight-inch-diameter body. That was a quarter kiloton weapon. That will fit inside any briefcase 
you can think of. The guy may die carrying it, but he’s going to die anyway, so what difference 
does it make? I’m far more afraid of that. If beings can travel in time-space, then anything we 
would put in orbit as a weapon would be like going against Genghis Khan with a firecracker. It 
doesn’t make sense. 


[Here he makes a very salient point regarding the weaponization of space: the real threats 
from Earth terrorists would not be addressed by such weapon systems, and the notion of using 
them against any extraterrestrial target borders on the suicidal, if not insane. These comments 
also support the idea that IF the extraterrestrials were hostile (thus requiring space weapons), 
Earth civilization could have easily been terminated around the time we detonated the first 
nuclear weapon. That we are still here is strong support for the assessment that the ET presence 
is not a threat and cannot be used as an excuse for space-based weapons. SGJ 


When we talk about zero-point energy, what that means is when everything comes down to 
rest, there’s still energy left. It’s like sea level in the ocean. There is a constant flow of energy 
between matter and antimatter, as it annihilates itself and recreates itself. It occurs in stars — it’s 
a continual exchange of energy. Although the average is zero, that zero may be a pretty high 
level above nothing at all. What Sakharov and some of the physicists said, is that it’s this level 
that creates the background energy for the universe to exist. 


When I got involved in space again with Sandy McDonald, and we started what eventually 
became the National Aerospace Plane, I met a group of Russians over in England at a conference. 
One of them had been involved in transmitting energy from an antenna on the ground to a 
satellite in orbit, and back down to Moscow, with only about 10-15 percent losses. He said the 
reason we can do this, is this is a scalar wave projector, and here’s what it uses — he opens up his 




339 






loose-leaf binder and says, “You can’t take any pictures of this or make any sketches; just look at 
it.” 




And, lo and behold, there’s the tube 1 saw in Yugoslavia, which Tesla had built! This was the 
antenna that Caspar Weinberger was saying was the antiballistic missile weapon [the Russians 
allegedly had]. He says if you ever go in the building [where this scalar device is located], all 
you’re going to see is an empty concrete building with a couple of cables — because it’s not an 
anti -ballistic missile radar — it’s a scalar wave transmitter. Finally, when the U.S. DoD got in 
there, they found an empty concrete building with a couple of wires in it, and they said, “Ah, they 
pulled everything out.” But, he says it never was in there. He claims he transmitted up to 10 
megawatts of power from this station, to a satellite, to Moscow, and got about 8.5 to 9 megawatts 
of power back in Moscow. 


[Note that Dr. Carol Rosin also confirms that the U.S. exaggerated the anti-missile threat of 
the Soviets — we were claiming that they had ‘killer satellites ’ when they did not. SGJ 


They were on the verge of understanding how you do some of these unconventional things, 
but all of that is now gone. I don’t know where he is. He lost his job, [and] his institute 
disappeared, so a lot of that work just collapsed in the Soviet Union. 


[See also the testimony of Lt. Col. Bearden and David Hamilton.] 


That’s the same tube that Tesla said he could [use to] transmit energy to Mars — the surface 
of Mars — and support a human colony, or [the same] to the surface of the Moon. Once you 
actually do that, fuel doesn’t become a problem anymore in orbit: you just use one of these tubes 
to generate the power directly to the right antenna, and you can fly to the moon, you can fly into 
orbit, you can do anything you want. 


The people that have access to [these advanced energy technologies] don’t know how to let 
go of it, because they’re afraid of who’s going to get their hands on it. Even though there would 
be a tremendous benefit to mankind, they’re also worried that somebody could take that same 
energy source and do the equivalent of what they did with the USS Cole — instead of blowing a 
hole in the side, they could just obliterate the whole ship. 


The black budget world is like trying to describe Casper, the friendly ghost. Y ou might see a 
cartoon of him, but you don’t know how big he is, you don’t know where his funding comes 
from, you don’t know how many there are, because of the compartmentalization and the oath that 
people have to take. I know people today that worked on one of the things I worked on, and if 
you asked them about it — even if it is being discussed on the Internet — they would say: “No, I 
have no idea what you’re talking about.” They’re in there seventies now, but they still absolutely 
would never admit that they even know what you’re talking about. You have no idea, but it’s 
probably larger than you think. And again — there’s a reason for it: you don’t want people who 
would be hostile to you to know what you could do to them if they really caused a major 
catastrophe. If they knew that, you wouldn’t prevent them from doing it — they would just do it 
another way. 




340 








RISfARCHANP 


ENGINCCASNG 








THE UNOEffSECRETARY OF DEI 




» SE 




WASHINGTON. O-C 20>0» 




/ 




jsderac ootekwwwT 




8 FF.B 1531' 






MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEST I OAT ION 
SUBJECT: Papers Recovered on the Death of hi col a Tesla (U) 




{ U ) We understand that the FBI nay have possession ef-a number of papers 
found after the death of Klcola Tesla in 1943. Ricola v "esia was a brilliant 
electrical engineer (iie. the Tesla Coll) who was a pioneer In various 
aspects of electrical transmission phenomena. 


(C) We believe that certain of Tesla's papers may contain basic principles 
which would be of considerable value to certain ongoing research within the 
DoD. It would be veryhetpful to have access to his papers. 




(U) Since we have really no idee of the possible volume of these papers, 
we would be happy to provide a researcher who could assist you in reducing 
the magnitude of the search. If there are further questions, I am the 
point of contact within the DoD and can be reached at 695-6364 or 695-741 7T ) 








m 


10 59G3.Q 






Allan J. JfecLaren 
LtColonel, USAF 
Military Assistant 


A^FOMATHN t»' C a " d SpaCe * StWSS 
HEREIN IS UNCIASSWCD 670 


0ATfy-?rt5 
ftsrPA i ' 








Wn fr«3\ 




n«.3St.Mt — OOZK 


DO 




E rrp 




18 I2SJ 




3ii,, 




WC 


- Clessifed by: OUSORE/5SSS 
Declassify on: February 1987 




670 ‘ 








” ***»*;? 








- 341 - 




341 








CUSSJFICATON; 


O TOP SECRET 
D SECRET 
D CONFtOENTlAJ. 


O UNCLAS E F TO 
O ONCUAS 


Date . a/.ia/a 




ATTtt: I STD, SUPERVISOR 




CUssifieSJ 


\y Decl«eeifw> 


T^Suxeau <Ruc. i)*® 
"T - Sew York <Enc. I) 
2 - Cincinnati 




Q1 M-J 


1 •* T l irf^-Trl^T-Til- 


13 


£22 




31 




342 












involvement in tb* seising of Nikola Teels’# raaaareh papers 
and other documents and acientlfic instrument# after hie death 
on January 7, 1943. • ^ • . ; ~ , ’ 


• • - They both^arpfstnid" that tea la was * acientlfic 
genius and experimenter, who was bo-rh la YugoisYia of Serbian 
parent* o n 7/10/56. went to school later in Crate, AuatcUu ' 


, Prague, Csechosip vakl* and Parle, Franca. Be immigrated to 
Xha 0.i.Tn tb* s*rlyl880'e, worked for Thoma* Edison's laboratory 
for a oowple of ymara, then atarted hie o%m lab after being paid 
■ |1 million dollar* fox right* to hi* patent* on hie polyphase i 
tbyatmm* of alternating current dynamo e, which le*d to the 
harnessing of Nlagra Fall* for producing electricity -r *~~ — ' 


and than the power ay* tea of the whole country. He wae natural!** 
in 1889. He predicted wireleaa communication (radio). Hia later 
experimanta in Colorado and elsewhere l«0d to hia producing 
artificial lightning in the million* of wolts. Be aleo had 
patent* on the concept of neon and floureacent lights, but ha — ^ 
later mad* little money on hie later imwamtima*/' although ha'v-'*’ 
Continued to do 'experiment* leading ro device* of great 
potential worth, witch he never patented. He became more 




reclusive in hi* later years, living in various hotel* in New York 
City. In the 1930'a he Claimed he had developed the concept end 
metnod of building a "death ray", which could destroy planes at 




many miles distent, for dsfendlng America. Aleo, there are report! 
of resonance machine* or device* whereby he could shake one or 
many large city buildings from some distance away. 




. Both HUP end 01 
of hia pa par a (or eopiaa there© 




Paid that Peals donated "a 
to tha Teals Institute in 




Belgrade, Yugoslavia; set up in tha 1930*« in hia honor by their i 
government. Biographies on Teels claim that dither the custodian 
of Allan Property and/or ! tha FBI salted hia papers and other • 
personal affects, including a safe or safes, and other property W 
immediately after hie death in 1943. This is elaborated on in ft) 
-tha enclosed copies of certain page* of Margaret Cheney's book, / a ) 
Till*! Tima". - X j*T \ . ~ 


V WKm **id that after *#arid 4#r XI Testa's papers mars i 


shipped to_d>*-F**la Institute in Belgrade , Yugoslavia, by his .1 




nephew . SavaX,JCo««npuij, who had become Tttcr*T Lehasndor 
Tf'.b. There 7 were reports that some microfilming of Taels' 
papars by government agent* while they were 
in New York under Xoaanovlc 'a custody. 




papers l 
by hi* 




£11 In storage 




MB 








343 








Testimony of Dr. Hal Puthoff 


November 2000 


Dr. Hal Puthoff, a theoretical and experimental physicist, is a graduate of Stanford 
University. He has published over forty technical papers in the areas of electron-beam 
devices, lasers, and quantum zero-point energy effects, and holds patents in the laser, 
communications, and energy fields. Dr. PuthofPs professional background spans more 
than thirty years of research at General Electric, Sperry, the National Security Agency, 
Stanford University, SRI International, and, since 1985, as Director of the Institute for 
Advanced Studies at Austin, Texas, and President of EarthTech International, Inc. In 
his testimony, Dr. Puthoff points out that as we uncover the technologies that make 
space travel possible, we must consider the possibility that there are other civilizations 
who have been down this track ahead of us. This opens up the possibility of ET 
visitation. Considering that our electromagnetic technology is a century old, we must 
realize that there could be advanced civilizations out there that are millennia beyond us, 
and their technologies could be well beyond our imagination; therefore, the ET/UFO 
topic deserves to be taken seriously by modem scientists. 


...[Regarding UFOs] Of course, we see claims, and not just among the public, but among 
military pilots and good observers, typically the military, that there appear to be something like 
craft flying around with anomalous behavior. 


In terms of some of the characteristics that seem to be attributed to them, and given the kind 
of physics and the direction physics is going, you can’t rule out that maybe some are some kind 
of craft or probes. Maybe even more likely probes than craft, from some far away civilization. 


But when you consider that our electromagnetic technology is a century old, basically you 
then realize that you could have advanced civilizations out there that are a millennia beyond us. 
Y ou know, there really is no way of saying whether they might have some other way of making 
contact or find other ways like worm holes or whatever. It could be well beyond our imagination. 


NORAD has ‘uncorrelated targets’ that they can’t account for, and, from time to time, 
satellites see things called fast walkers, which seem to be energetic signatures moving faster than 
can be accounted for by known planes for example. . . 


Testimony of David Hamilton 


October 2000 


David Hamilton works for the Department of Energy in the area of new generation 
power systems. He explains that we have nearly exhausted the world’s supply of 
fossil fuels, just at the time when Asia and China are undergoing an “industrial 
revolution” and are positioning to become bigger consumers of these fuels than the 
“first world” countries already are. In order to alleviate the current Earth crises of 
environmental pollution, global warming, etc. and advance as a sustainable 
technological society, we must develop technologies that don’t fit into the old 
paradigm. 


We have designed a world that feeds on oil and those oil supplies are becoming more and 
more limited. Now if we look at what the supply of oil is, never before in our history have we 
been in a position where supply and demand would intersect. But in about 1 0 years we will see 
the intersection between supply and demand and that means that we will be seriously supply 
limited... 




344 






In working with the Russian universities, they did what I consider one of the best 
gravitational experiments ever done. It was at the High Temperature Materials Laboratory in 
Russia. They had done their experiment off-site and demonstrated that this device could develop 
a 35 percent reduction in the gravitational field. 


Now we saw that. We were very impressed with it. The high gravitational researchers at 
DOE, I had them look at it. We were all interested in it. We would like to follow up on that to do 
a second type of experiment - duplication, reproducibility, getting back to the issues of how do 
you get good science. But you run into a lot of resistance among people. And in the Russian case 
it was even more so. When they were away from this off-site laboratory - it was across the street 
from the university, as I understand it - the place was completely ransacked. 


All the equipment was lost. Now lucky for us they had their recordings, they had their 
videotapes, they had their presentation materials. All of that was still intact. But the machine 
was lost as well as a lot of the equipment necessary to duplicate that test. 


It may have been that there were some Mafia type individuals involved, thinking that there 
might be some profit in this thing. And my Russian friends say that part of the government that 
does that sort of thing is no different from the Mafia. So that complicates the problem. . .. 


I am concerned that if we don’t do something very soon, any society that begins to be 
resource limited begins to eliminate the problem causing that resource limitation. And I would 
hate to see us get into the position where other people want to eliminate us or we have to 
eliminate them in order to continue our lifestyle. And that’s why it’s so important that we start 
now. 




Testimony of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas E. Bearden (retired) 


October 2000 


Colonel Bearden is a leading conceptualist in alternate energy technologies, 
electromagnetic bio-effects, unified field theory concepts, and other related areas. He is 
a retired Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Army and holds a Ph.D. and an M.S. in Nuclear 
Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is currently CEO of CTEC, 


Inc., Director of the Association of Distinguished American Scientists, and Fellow 
Emeritus of the Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study. In Colonel 
Bearden’s testimony he speaks extensively about how it is possible to derive useable 
energy from the vacuum without violating any currently known laws of physics. He 
and others have built electromechanical devices which actually demonstrate this 
technology. He also explains how certain powers would rather keep this technology 
from becoming widely known outside of small esoteric circles. Time is running out 
however because our Earth does not have enough oil and coal reserves to last even for 
this generation. He explains how our top minds and scientists must first recognize then 
rally around an effort to solve this energy problem before 2004. 


. . . We have the giant industrial economic cartels in energy. And it is not one cartel. It is 
many, many groups in energy. And each of those has become very powerful in its own area. 
And each one does not wish to see simple little electrical taps pulling out enormous energy from 
the vacuum. They would much rather see you burning a lot more oil and so forth. . . 


Lethal force is used. I worked with an inventor, for example, Sparky Sweet, who is quite 
well known. He was shot at once by a sniper rifle from about 300 yards. The only thing that 




345 






saved his life was, he was an old guy and very feeble, there towards that part of his life, and he 
stumbled as he was coming up the steps and he fell down. As his head went forward, the bullet 
went right by where his head was. And of course, the assassin was never found. . . 


If we use this system where we extract energy from the vacuum we can clean up this 
biosphere. One of the greatest, most critical things facing us is that the supply of cheap oil has 
now peaked. We are there. What this means is we will continue to get some oil, yes. But it will 
be more and more and more expensive, year by year by year. Meanwhile, the demand for 
electricity goes up everywhere in the world, which drives the oil curve, again. And what you 
have is a classic escalation of prices type situation. . . 


Well, what happens? Somewhere along the line of about 2008, the way I look at it and 
project it, we are going to have a world economic collapse. The economy cannot stand such 
increases as it is going to come. And God help us if we have a war in the Mid-East. But I believe 
by 2008, we will see the world economy collapse. Now, about a year before that, as the 
economies are crumbling and the stress on all these populations and all these leaders and all these 
nations increases so much, desperate people will do anything. Desperate leaders, particularly 
fanatical leaders will do anything. . . 


The energy crisis going right now, in my view, will probably evoke a great Armageddon that 
we’ve all feared so long in about 2007, if we don’t solve the [energy] crisis. If we back up from 
that, it means the first quarter of 2004. These new energy devices had better be rolling off of the 
assembly lines like sausages or we can all forget it and go home. It’s too late to change it. That 
is how short a time we have. 


I view this as the greatest strategic threat to [the] survival of the United States, and in fact, of 
civilization itself, that has ever existed in my lifetime. . . 


We had one friend, for example, that we worked with very closely who built practical over- 
unity systems. He demonstrated at a conference, for example, an 8-kilowatt system. And then, 
very mysteriously he and his whole family disappeared. We have found out since that he is still 
around and he’s doing very well, because he was attired in a very expensive suit and a very nice 
automobile. He and his family are okay, even though they disappeared back then. 


But here he had a successful unit that just flat disappeared off the face of the Earth. Now, its 
[disappearance] has to either be for the great financial empires, or it has to be for some kind of 
black project. And they classified it . . . 


I really believe, through the auspices of the U.S. Government, we must bring [these 
technologies] forward to save ourselves and save the Earth. If we keep it secret, or if we keep it 
in the control group’s hands we shall all go down to oblivion in about 2007 . . . 


I’ll make you a prediction. If the Government doesn’t move, there’s a 75% to 80% chance 
we will fail. We certainly won’t make the first quarter of 2004 [to get an operating energy device 
to replace fossil fuels]. And if we miss the first quarter of 2004, then we may as well all go home 
and enjoy our families for the time we have left because it is going to blow. . . 


Everybody wants a modem life. They want to get out of the mud and the slime and 
everything and have lights and have things that are powered. And have industry and jobs and 
homes and schools. It’s a common striving from the human heart. And to try to do that the way 




346 






we are doing it, we’ll destroy the planet and we will forcefully destroy each other. It seems to 
me, we just ought to be wiser than that. 




Testimony of Dr. Eugene Mallove 


October 2000 


Dr. Eugene Mallove is currently the Editor-In-Chief of the magazine Infinite 
Energy and Director of the New Energy Research Laboratory in New Hampshire. 


He holds two MIT degrees in Aeronautical-Astronautical Engineering and a 
Harvard Doctorate in Environmental Health Sciences (Air Pollution Control 
Engineering). He has broad experience in high-technology engineering at 
companies including Hughes Research Labs, TASC (The Analytic Science 
Corporation), and MIT Lincoln Laboratory. Dr. Mallove was the Chief Science 
Writer at MIT when the cold fusion story broke in March 1989, and he resigned in 
1991 after his requested investigation into the fudged cold fusion data at MIT 
(which helped to discredit the whole subject) was not properly done. The 
marginalization by the scientific establishment of the cold fusion topic bears strong 
resemblance to the similar marginalization of the ET/UFO topic: both have been 
ridiculed and defamed because they break established paradigms. As Dr. Mallove 
states in this interview, “There is nothing worse... than suggesting to academic 
physicists in particular, and academics in general, that they are not only wrong; 
they are disastrously wrong, catastrophically wrong.” In his magazine, Dr. 


Mallove has advised us to remember the sentiments of Michael Faraday: “Nothing 
is too wonderful to be true.” 


. . . We know for a fact, today, that the cold fusion low energy nuclear reactions are real. It’s 
a class of nuclear non-dangerous reactions producing dominantly heat, but also nuclear changes 
— a very beneficial type of powerful reaction. It is a commercially emerging technology in the 
hands of a number of companies. . . 


There is absolutely no doubt about this. What that means is that in one cubic kilometer of 
ocean, if you fuse all the heavy hydrogen, which is just one sixty-five hundredth of that cubic 
kilometer of ocean, that would equal the oil energy from combusting all the known oil reserves 
on Earth. . . 


There has been an extraordinary abrogation of basic legal responsibility at the Patent Office 
and at the Department of Energy on the matter of cold fusion. Cold fusion patents have not been 
approved. The only way of approving any patent that resembles cold fusion is to eliminate the 
words cold fusion or anything like it. Certain people have done that and succeeded. The 
Patterson power cell is one such example. It was an age acceleration clause (because of the age 
of Dr. Patterson) that helped him, and he went through a different art group at the Patent Office. 


But predominantly, if the patent goes through a certain gentleman at the Patent Office today 
whose name is Harvey, he will reject all such patents. They will not get through. American 
citizens are being denied their constitutional rights in this particular case. There is no question 
about it. We have a complete audit trail on that. Yes, there is serious criminal activity going on 
that ultimately must be rooted out if the cold fusion and new energy revolution are to go forward. 
If it doesn’t get rooted out, you will not be able to have a commercial infrastructure . . . 




347 






There is nothing worse, I found, than suggesting to academic physicists in particular, and 
academics in general, that they are not only wrong; they are disastrously wrong, catastrophically 
wrong... 




Testimony of Dr. Paul LaViolette 


October 2000 


Dr. Paul LaViolette has written four books and has published many original papers 
in physics, astronomy, climatology, systems theory, and psychology. He received 
his BA in physics from Johns Hopkins, his MBA from the University of Chicago, 
and PhD from Portland State University, and is currently president of the Starburst 
Foundation, an interdisciplinary scientific research institute. He is the developer of 
subquantum kinetics, a novel approach to microphysics that accounts for electric, 
magnetic, gravitational, and nuclear forces in a unified manner and resolves many 
long-standing physics problems. Based on the predictions of this theory, he 
developed an alternative cosmology that effectively replaces the big bang theory. 


Dr. LaViolette has also developed a new theory of gravity that replaces the deeply 
flawed theory of general relativity. Predicted from subquantum kinetics, it accounts 
for the electrogravitic coupling phenomenon discovered by Townsend Brown and 
may explain the advanced aerospace propulsion technology utilized in the B-2 
bomber. In addition to his understanding of UFO and black budget craft propulsion 
systems, including materialization and dematerialization, he has deep knowledge of 
the inner workings of the U.S. Patent Office. He states in this interview that, 
currently, if an invention doesn’t fit into the accepted physics paradigm, the patent 
examiners immediately reject it thinking it violates the paradigm and must be a 
mistake. In effect, new energy technologies are the underdog: They don’t fit the 
paradigm so they are left out of the needed funding, or their patents are denied — 
even to the point that the Patent Office is breaking the law. In order to alleviate the 
current Earth crises of environmental pollution, global warming, etc. and advance as 
a technological society, we need technologies that don’t fit into the old paradigm. 


... Let’s say there was a Roswell crash, and the National Security Agency was formed to 
keep this all classified. Now, something like that is a very emotional experience [with] some of 
your Government officials. You realize there is extraterrestrial life, and they have this advanced 
technology. When you become very emotional about something, one reaction is to hide it and 
then see how we can use this for ourselves — we’ve got to keep one step ahead of the other 
countries. At that time we had a Cold War with the Soviet Union, so the rationale was to use it 
for military purposes. 


Suppose the same thing happened 100 years ago at the time the automobile was developed? I 
sincerely believe we’d still be driving horses and buggies today, because it would be feared that 
the automobile could change warfare. It would mean a much higher speed of travel, and 
obviously, we should classify this. At that time there wasn’t the same mechanism in place; we 
didn’t have the NSA and this major program to contain advanced technologies. 


We think of science as being based on observation and being open to change, but as you learn 
more about it and about the scientists themselves, you realize how much it is a religion. It is very 
closed [and] resistive to changing its fundamental principles... 


There was a case of a Canadian fellow who had developed a technology for producing 
enough power to power your house, out of something about the size of a shoebox. It was a new 
way of wiring something up — some sort of non-linear device. He was very open about it and 




348 






[about] publicizing it. One day his house was surrounded by SWAT teams and all of his 
equipment was confiscated. He was arrested on the grounds that he was harboring terrorist 
technology or weaponry, and he was released only after he had signed something that said he 
would not continue doing work in this area. Now he is mowing lawns for a living. . . 


The Patent Office, in its current approach, is actually breaking the law. It is trying to make 
happy the physicists who are with the American Physical Society — to keep them in power with 
their ideas, you might say, and withhold from public use good inventions that could solve our 
problems, like the energy crisis. There is a whole pattern of this going on at the Patent Office. I 
personally know it, because I was at the Patent Office for about a year and I know some people 
there, and I know some of the things that were going on. For example, there was somebody I 
know who issued a patent on a process of sending signals faster than the speed of light. This was 
then made fun of by Robert Park on his website. Through their connections, they had this posted 
somewhere as the most ridiculous patent of the year award — this sort of thing. . . 


They can say what they want; it’s freedom of speech, but for the Patent Office to do their 
bidding instead of following the law — that is illegal. . . 


Testimony of Mr. Fred Threlfall 


September 2000 


Mr. Threlfall was a communications instructor in the Royal Canadian Air Force at 
RCAF Station Toronto in 1953, when he witnessed an experiment involving the 
successful dematerialization and re-materialization of an object. Because of his top 
clearance, he was also able to check out from the base library, original films of gun 
camera footage from WWII planes. Many times, while watching these films, he noticed 
UFOs in the footage — different positions, different shapes, but, definitely UFOs. He 
has also himself seen UFOs maneuvering in the sky. 


...While in Toronto stationed at an air station as an instructor in 1953, I observed an unusual 
experiment. I had just finished an experiment and I was on my way back to my classroom. 
There’s this one experiment that was going on and it was in an approximately four-by-four 
enclosed glass enclosure inside this room. On a cabinet there was a large glass ashtray. I said, 
what’s going on. Oh, we’ve got an experiment underway and we have a similar device in the 
other room with no ashtray. So we’re talking away and one of the scientists said go ahead. Next 
thing, that ashtray wasn’t sitting there. Everyone went into the next room and was excited as can 
be, because the ashtray was sitting there. So it dematerialized and materialized. . . 


Testimony of Dr. Ted Loder 


October 2000 


Dr. Ted Loder is a respected scientist and oceanography professor at the University of 
New Hampshire. After learning from his cousin, Brigadier General Stephen Lovekin, 
that the ET/UFO subject is not only real but is the key to technologies that could 
preserve our Earth’s environment while advancing humanity into a sustainable 
planetary society, he has become an outspoken advocate for ending the secrecy 
surrounding this subject. He has worked to introduce students, other scientists, and 
legislators to the fact that humans are not alone in the universe. 




349 






4.0 SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDED ACTIONS BY PUBLIC, PRIVATE AND 
GOVERNMENTAL STAKEHOLDERS 


4.1 Recommended Press Actions 


The role of the press in this disclosure effort is critical to its success and the acceptance of the 
facts by the American public and academic institutions in a non-threatening, but intelligent and 
interested manner. It usually becomes obvious to anyone studying this field that the American 
press has played an important role over the last half century in helping spread disinformation and 
shaping the public’s views on UFO/ET issues 30 . The press has often been an unknowing partner 
in the distribution of misinformation/disinformation or a knowing partner in the refusal to report 
real events. It is exceedingly rare that major sightings are reported at the national level. When 
reports are made, they often done in a condescending, slanted, “add the giggle factor” manner that 
leaves the audience confused and turned off. Two recent exceptions were the report of the 
Phoenix Lights story in USA Today 31 by Richard Price and the Boston Globe report on the French 
COMETA report 32 by Leslie Kean. Both articles were well researched and presented in a 
balanced, non-judgmental manner. 


We recommend the press take the following actions: 


1. We recommend that reporters writing on this topic familiarize themselves with the 
evidence and the implications of this topic. It is felt by many who have studied the 
UFO/ET issue that it is the most important issue facing the world today. This importance 
should be conveyed to the readers in a responsible serious manner; 


2. We recommend that media organizations assign these issues to senior, well-respected, 
nationally-recognized journalists and reporters. These issues should no longer be 
confined to filler articles assigned to junior staff or relegated to entertainment 
programming; 


3. We recommend that the present cliches of reporting on these issues, which maybe 
intended to “dumb down” the topic by conveying a non-serious and silly tone to the 
reporting, be eliminated. These include the use of opening statements such as “little 
green men” and the filming of interviewees with weird camera angles, colored lights, fog 
generators and the like. All of these techniques, which have been successfully used for 
decades to “spin” the topic, must be eliminated if the public is to believe the seriousness 
of your reporting. 


4.2 Recommended Public Actions 


We recommend the public take the following actions: 


1. We recommend that the public open their minds to UFO/ET issues by thoughtfully 
investigating the issues themselves; 


2. We recommend that the public, once recognizing the implications of a disclosure, 
encourage the press and public officials to research and report responsibly on them and 




30 See Hanson, T., The Missing Times: News Media Complicity in the UFO Cover-up. 2001 


31 See copy in Appendix I (Document A1.18). 


32 See copy in Appendix I (Document A1.19). 




350 






further to take part in a dialogue addressing a dramatically transformed view of humans 
on this planet and their future place as part of a larger group of intelligent beings; 


3. We recommend that the public write the President and ask that he issue an executive 
order permitting witnesses to safely come forward (see section on Presidential actions) 
and write their senators and representatives requesting that they sponsor open hearings 
where these witnesses may testify. 


4. We recommend that former government, military or corporate persons with knowledge 
about this subject and willingness to be witnesses, contact the Disclosure Project to help 
make their knowledge public in an honorable and patriotic manner. We have protective 
measures in place, and the more witnesses we have, the stronger the case - and the 
greater the margin of safety for all concerned; 


5. Ultimately, if the people will lead, the leaders will follow. Courage, vision and 
perseverance are needed to transform this situation, and create a time of openness and 
trust. If our leaders currently lack this courage and vision, then we must manifest it for 
them since ultimately the public will help drive the disclosure effort. 


4.3 Recommended Congressional Actions 


Considering the incredible importance and implications of this subject, Congress has played 
an almost negligible role over the past four to five decades. In fact only two formal hearings have 
been held during that time period. The first was held by the House Armed Services Committee 
on April 5, 1966 because of strong editorial and public criticism of the Air Force Project Blue 
Book UFO program. Then Representative Gerald Ford of Michigan was a strong supporter of the 
hearings, in part as a result of major sightings that had occurred during March of that year in his 
state and seen by hundreds of people and reported widely in the press. The result of the hearings 
was the recommendation for an independent scientific investigation of UFOs, which became the 
University of Colorado “Scientific Study of UFOs” directed by Dr. Edward Condon. 


Then in 1968, the House Science and Astronautics Committee held a “Symposium on 
Unidentified Flying Objects” to review the scientific evidence for UFOs. Of the six scientists 
who testified, five opinioned that there was a valid scientific anomaly that should be studied 
further. In fact, one of the scientists 33 , Dr. James McDonald, a senior physicist and professor at 
the University of Arizona, concluded that, ”My own study of the UFO problem has convinced me 
that we must rapidly escalate serious scientific attention to this extra-ordinarily intriguing 
puzzle.” A year later the Condon Committee concluded that there was no convincing scientific 
evidence for UFOs and recommended that Project Blue Book be terminated, which happened 
later that year on December 17. This surprising conclusion was reached in spite of the fact that 
about 30% of the cases investigated by the committee had remained unexplained. In the 1990s, 
the refusal of the Air Force to even comment on the growing evidence of a crash near Roswell, 
NM lead then Representative Steven Schiff (R-NM) to request that the General Accounting 
Office conduct a search for related documents. In 1995 the GAO released a report stating that 
they could not find documents related to the crash as documents from Roswell Army Base from 
that time period had been improperly destroyed. 


Then in early April, 1997 the CSETI organization held a closed briefing for members of 
congress and civilian witnesses in the hopes that someone in Congress would have the courage to 




1 See sections 32.1 and 6.3 (under Dr. Robert Wood for other comments by and about Dr. McDonald. 




351 






hold hearings on this topic. No one then nor until today has had the courage to call for hearings 
on this topic, even though the statement made by Rep Gerald Ford in 1966 that “We owe it to the 
people to establish credibility regarding UFOs,” is as true today as it was then. It is interesting to 
note that the members of the Senate have never held any hearings on this subject although 
privately individuals have expressed significant interest in the subject. 


We recommend that Congress take the following actions to pursue this matter: 


1. Make directed inquiries to contacts and chairmen of the House and Senate 
Intelligence Committees; 


2. Inquire directly to the various facilities, agencies and entities listed (section 5.1.3); 


3. Pursue other contacts known to the Congress, which may be able to assist in 
identifying points of control for these operations. 


4. Purse this matter further by convening Congressional Hearings whereby direct 
witnesses to these projects may testify. We believe more than one member of 
Congress should be located to co-sponsor such an inquiry. 


5. Pass a Congressional ban on weapons in space and encourage our allies and the UN 
to do the same. 


Note that once issues concerning the validity of National Security oaths (Section 4.7.2) and 
amnesty (Section 4.7) are resolved by congress and/or presidential order, there are hundreds of 
potential witnesses who are willing to testify on the reality of the UFO/ET issues and their 
implications for our country’s future. 


It is only through the medium of open and public congressional hearings that an 
understanding of the complexity of these issues may be achieved and our country can move 
forward. 


Because of the interconnections between the UFO issue and the world’s energy status and 
technology, it will also be necessary to also hold Congressional Hearings on these energy issues 
as well, as a pursuant, but somewhat parallel process. 


Once the reality of the UFO issues are accepted by Congress, then we recommend that 
Congress: 


1 . Thoroughly investigate these new technologies both from current civilian sources as 
well as compartmented projects within military, intelligence and corporate 
contracting areas. 


2. Authorize the declassification and release of information held within compartmented 
projects related to this subject. 


3. Specifically prohibit the seizing or suppression of such technologies. 


4. Authorize substantial funding for basic research and development by civilian 
scientists and technologists making this research available to the public and 
mainstream scientists. 


5. Develop plans for dealing with disclosing such technologies and for the transition to 
a non-fossil fuel economy . These plans should include among others: military and 
national security planning; strategic economic planning and preparation; private 




352 






sector support and cooperation; geopolitical planning, especially as it pertains to 
OPEC countries and regions whose economies are very dependent on oil exports and 
the price of oil; international cooperation and security. 




The Disclosure Project stands ready to assist the Congress in any way possible to facilitate 
use of these new energy sources. We can recommend a number of individuals who can be 
subpoenaed to provide testimony on such technologies, as well as people who have information 
on unacknowledged special access projects within covert government operations that are already 
working with these issues. 


4.4 Recommended Military Actions 


Since the early 1990s, the Director and members of the Disclosure Project have briefed 
various high level military officials including the Head of Intelligence Joint Staff (J-2), the 
Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Director of Central Intelligence, Wright 
Patterson Director of National Air Intelligence Center and others. It has become obvious to us 
during these briefings that senior officers have not been informed on this subject. This constitutes 
a serious threat to the national security and to military readiness. 


To quote Admiral Roscoe Hillenkoetter, “I urge immediate congressional action to reduce the 
dangers from secrecy about Unidentified Flying Objects.” Note that here he is emphasizing the 
dangers from secrecy, not danger arising from UFOs. 14 


We recommend senior military and national security leaders take the following actions: 


1. Receive a thorough briefing on the subject by the Disclosure Project leadership and 
military/civilian witnesses; 


2. Fully brief CINCS (Commander in Chiefs), and develop special ROEs (Rules of 
Engagement) for ETI/UFO encounters; 


3. Independently investigate the subject and penetrate USAP (Unacknowledged Special 
Access Projects, see section 3.4) operations related to the subject; 


4. Become fully involved in covert projects related to the subject to ensure that such 
projects are adequately supervised and are under the direct and continuous control of 
the constitutional chain of command; 


5. Correct and/or restrain any USAP’s covert misuse of advanced technologies or 
weapon systems related to UFOs; 


6. Attempt peaceful, cooperative engagement of these life forms and assiduously avoid 
violent military engagement; 


7. Carefully reconsider the deployment of space-based military assets in light of the 
above information and avoid actions that might be viewed as bellicose or hostile by 
extraterrestrial life forms. 


More details on these recommendations are found in section 5.1, “Operational Readiness and 


the Unidentified Flying Object/Extraterrestrial Intelligence Subject.” 




34 Hillenkoeter, Roscoe: Aliens from Space . Major Donald E. Keyhoe, 1975. 




353 






4.5 Recommended Scientific Community Actions 


As observations of the UFO phenomena reported by many thousands of witnesses worldwide 
(see sections 3.8 and 7.0 for some documented examples) are validated, a new set of scientific 
paradigms will need to be researched to explain what is being observed. Twentieth century 
scientific theories have barely touched the surface in explaining what numerous scientific, 
military and civilian witnesses have observed and reported. However, in some cases, covert 
military research programs appear to have advanced much further in understanding the observed 
phenomena and technologies (based on witness testimonies, section 3.8) than have our academic 
and public scientists. Recent findings, such as the demonstration of possible faster than speed of 
light phenomenon 35 , suggest that indeed there will be a whole new class of scientific phenomena 
that 2 1 st century scientists will investigate to explain what has been declared as “impossible” by 
scientists of the last century. 


There is still a major acceptance problem about UFO/ET issues with most scientists. Dr. 
Peter Sturrock, a highly respected solar physicist and now an emeritus professor at Stanford 
University, summarized the problem as follows: 


“The definite resolution of the UFO enigma will not come about unless and 
until the problem is subjected to open and extensive scientific study by the normal 
procedures of established science. This requires a change in attitude primarily on 
the part of scientists and administrators in universities.” 36 


A further view by Dr. Sturrock on the role of scientists and scientific journals is quoted in 
section 3.2.1. Surprising though it may seem to the layperson, scientists often have trouble 
changing their understanding of processes and natural phenomena when faced with evidence that 
their theories may not be correct. The history of science is replete with examples of scientists 
proclaiming such and such is impossible, only to be shown later that their assumptions were 
incorrect. This normal human tendency is certainly not limited to scientists. (For example, for a 
number of years after the Wright brother’s planes had been observed flying by thousands of 
people, there were still popular articles proclaiming that flying is impossible.) Furthermore, most 
scientific research in the United States, especially in colleges and universities, is colleague-driven 
through the peer review process for promotion and tenure as well as for grants and journal 
publications. Stepping outside the bounds of peer accepted research often spells difficulty for the 
scientist, even if they are well established in more conventionally accepted scientific areas. 
Consequently, the vast majority of academics are not willing to take such a risk, since it is safer to 
remain with the accepted views of the day. 




35 Wang, L. J., A. Kuzmich, and A. Dogariu. 2000. Fain-assisted superluminal light propagation. Nature. 
406:277-279 




36 Sturrock, P.A., Report on a Survey of American Astronomical Society concerning the UFO Phenomenon, 
Stanford University Report SUIPR 68IR, 1977 




354 






Over the last century, scientists have played both an active and passive role, often 
unknowingly, in shaping the attitudes of the “trusting” public on the UFO issue through 
promulgation of misinformation and disinformation. Since the 1950s, scientists have been used 
to persuade the public that there is “no scientific evidence” of UFO phenomena. Fligh profile 
scientists are still playing that role today, as did one of the leaders in the SETI program who 
stated in a recent public guest lecture at Flarvard University that “there is no scientific evidence of 
the existence of UFOs.” There are several possible explanations for this statement. Either she 
was unaware of the depth of evidence on the subject, in which case she could have qualified her 
authoritative pronouncement, or she knew that the subject was real but there were motivations 
which inadvertently mislead the public in order to gain more support to expand SETI research. 
Either way, scientists need to be more honest with the public, who for the most part still trust 
them and their pronouncements. 


In summary, without investigation and research, there can be no intelligent informed 
statement on the phenomena. This need was also recommended by a panel of scientists in the 
Sturrock/Rockefeller report and by scientists and military personnel in the French COMETA 
report summarized in section 8.0. 




We recommend scientists take the following actions: 


1. Scientists must open their minds to the possibility of the UFO/ET phenomenon and stop 
prejudging others who are researching this area. This will require each to do their own 
“research” into the matter; 


2. Scientists who know the UFO/ET issues are real (such as those who participate in covert 
research projects) should share the reality and their understanding with scientific 
colleagues to start to bring them up to speed. There will be a lot of catching up to do and 
it will be difficult because of reputations and funding issues; 


3. Academic scientists should share this knowledge with their students and the public, for it 
is the next generation of students and graduate students that will help make the 
breakthroughs in research to explain what has been observed for several generations; 


4. It is critical that scientists help make the study of UFO/ET issues a supported and 
encouraged area of scientific investigation for these future graduate students and young 
professional scientists; 


5. Scientist/managers who run our federally funded academic research programs should set 
aside a small percentage of their budgets for ‘outside-the-box’ research into the UFO/ET 
arena, helping to make it a legitimate area of research. 


6. Finally, scientists should realize that advances in science and technology that could come 
from an understanding of the UFO/ET phenomenon will have far ranging effects on the 
future of the people and the environment of our planet. The opportunities for new 
‘breakthrough’ research have never been better (as well as the opportunity to rewrite many 
textbooks). 




355 






4.6 Recommended Actions for the President of the United States 




Although Presidents since World War II have known about the reality of the UFO/ET issues, 
in recent decades their knowledge and ability to affect the issues have become limited. It is time 
for the president to take a proactive role in the disclosure process, because should significant 
disclosures occur without any presidential role, the president would be viewed by the American 
public and the world in one of two perhaps equally damaging ways. 


1. If the President and the executive branch of the U.S. government maintain that they did 
not know anything about a subject this important, presidential stature and credibility 
would be significantly damaged. 


2. If the President and the executive branch maintain after “unsanctioned” disclosures that 
they knew of the subject and its incredible national significance, but were not connected to 
the disclosure, the President might be accused of supporting the cover-up, even though this 
may be unfair in light of the actual facts of how this subject has been covertly handled. 


Either way it behooves the President to begin the disclosure process with the following steps 
or one of the above damaging options may become the prevailing view. 


1. We recommend that the President set forth an Executive Order releasing witnesses from 
national security oaths on this subject since a critical issue for witnesses willing to testify 
is their security oaths, even though they may have been illegally obtained (see section 4.7 
on security oaths); 


2. We recommend that the President convene an independent, fair and open commission to 
investigate the subject, USAPs connected to the subject, and technologies that are 
currently clarified and could benefit humanity if released; 


3. We recommend at the same time that the Executive Order support the declassification of 
government documents related to the UFO/ET subject, a process that has already begun 
through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA); 


4. We also recommend, as the disclosure process proceeds, that the President issue an 
Executive Order providing amnesty for members of the suspected group and its personnel 
that control the UFO/ET issues, provided that there is cooperation and non-interference 
by that group; 


5. We recommend that the President present a nationally televised talk on the issues and the 
process to start to restore public faith in the government and democratic principles; 


6. Finally, we recommend that the President create by Executive Order, a new scientific 
research organization to develop covert technologies that can be used to address our 
energy problems and start to integrate these technologies into our mainstream academic 
institutions. 


These Executive Orders would fully utilize the powers of the presidency to help terminate 
certain “black projects” activities that appear to be operating outside the constitutional chain 
of command. While certain aspects of extraterrestrial technology (and other matters) may not 
be fully accessed through this EO process, it would enable definite witness testimony to be 
disclosed. This would start the process of neutralizing the present efforts by the covert 
groups to keep the President and the Executive branch, Congress, the press, and the taxpayers 
out of the loop. 




356 






4.7 Amnesty Issues and Security Oaths 


4.7.1 Why Amnesty? 


One of the major stumbling blocks to disclosure is that those involved with the cover up are 
afraid of retribution once the government and the people realize the depth and extent of deceit 
that has occurred over the last half century. We citizens should not condone what those have 
done, but nor should we punish them. We citizens must be prepared to forgive. There is nothing 
to be gained by calling for severe retribution for those involved with either current or past 
secrecy. Although some individuals have acted to end this secrecy, such as the witnesses who 
have contributed testimony in sections 3.6 and 3.8, many others may have felt they were doing 
the right thing at the time, which often continues until today. Our world does not need a cosmic 
Watergate, and we must collectively renounce it. We must be willing to look to the moment and 
to the future, and forgive the past. Even though our culture wants to blame and hold someone 
accountable, we need to offer complete amnesty to all those involved in suppressing the truth. 
There is international precedent for this approach, such as shown by South Africa in recent years. 
There is precedent in the US as well. For example, in the early days of the Clinton 
Administration, there were sweeping disclosures about past excesses and crazy experiments 
within the Department of Energy, and the former Atomic Energy Commission. We learned of 
plutonium being put on the oatmeal of kids in oiphanages, of deliberate radiation releases in 
populated areas to see ‘what would happen’, and so forth. This truth came out, and the world did 
not end. Nobody had to go to jail. The government did not collapse, and the sky did not fall. Let 
us move forward, with some real compassion and forgiveness, and begin this century anew. 


Our president must take the lead on this amnesty issue as was noted in the section on 
Recommended Presidential Actions. It is our understanding that the people of the United States 
are ready to move forward and as the saying goes, if the people will lead, the leaders will follow. 
The stakes are too high to look the other way while our future is stolen from us. Courage, vision 
and perseverance are needed to transform this situation, and create a time of openness, trust and 
to lay the foundation for both global and inter-planetary peace. If our leaders currently lack this 
courage and vision, then we must manifest it for them. 


4.7.2 Evaluating the Validity of National Security Oaths Related to the 
UFO/Extraterrestrial Subject (1996) 


copyright Steven M. Greer M.D., 21 October 1996 


A number of first hand military, intelligence and government-associated witnesses to covert 
projects dealing with UFOs and Extraterrestrial Intelligence (ETI) have been identified by the 
Disclosure Project’s effort. Over the past three years, we have located several dozen such 
potential witnesses as part of a comprehensive strategy to collect adequate evidence for a global, 
definitive disclosure on this subject. The story which these important government witnesses can 
tell will make a credible, undeniable case for the reality of UFOs and the existence of 
extraterrestrial life forms in proximity to the Earth. 


One of the persistent obstacles to this testimony coming out into the public arena has been the 
issue of so-called national security oaths and restrictions placed on these witnesses. Some feel 
that they are not free to speak unless ‘released’ from these national security oaths and restrictions, 
and so we have been working to encourage Congress and the White House to take actions that 
would remove these restrictions. 




357 






In the summer of 1995, a number of these witnesses gathered at a witnesses’ summit and 
signed a letter to President Clinton asking him to take actions leading to the release of these 
restrictions. While receipt of this letter was acknowledged by a special assistant to the President, 
we still await specific action from the executive branch of the US government (Note that we still 
are waiting in 2001). 


With this said, it is important to visit the question of whether or not such national security 
oaths and restrictions are themselves legally valid. 


We have compelling witness testimony that the operations dealing with this subject currently 
exist, and have existed for several decades, outside of normal governmental projects. Members 
of the Disclosure Project team have met with very senior members of the Administration, 
Congress, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the CIA and other relevant government agency operatives. 
The picture which emerges from these discussions is that of an operation dealing with UFOs 
which is functioning outside of the normal channels of government, as it is usually considered. 
Indeed, we have found that the most senior levels of the executive branch, Congress, the military, 
etc. are totally out of the loop on this extraordinary matter. 


This then brings up the sobering question of who is in the loop, and under what authorization 
are such projects operating? It is our assessment that for the large part, these operations do not 
fall under any constitutionally sanctioned avenues of authorization, and as such are, perforce, 
illegal. 


Aside from the lack of oversight and authorization from the executive branch and Congress, 
these operations have, from time to time, engaged in deceptive practices, which have frustrated 
the organs of constitutionally legal inquiries and democratic processes. Any such operation 
which behaves in this fashion unilaterally removes itself from the inherent legality and protection 
which exists for projects which are consonant with constitutional law. 


This being the case (we are eager — nay, desperate — for someone to prove otherwise) all of 
the so-called “national security oaths” and other “restrictions” placed on military, intelligence and 
government contract workers are null and void. That is, they appear to have no legal validity 
since the operations for which they were obtained are themselves illegal. In a constitutional 
democracy, it is a basic requirement of law that such operations be constitutionally legal, and if 
they are not, then all that flows from them — including such “oaths” — are illegal and therefore 
non-binding. IF these operations are legal, nobody in the Congress, executive branch or senior 
military with whom we have spoken knows of it. The production of a single current executive 
order or congressional directive authorizing these projects, which can be independently verified, 
would convince us otherwise. 


More than one covert contact has told us that, indeed, any such witnesses can and should 
speak out at the right time and place since no legal entity would — or legally could — do 
anything about it. We agree. 


Beyond this, it is the legal, moral and patriotic duty of such witnesses to come together, and 
at the highest, best and most credible venue possible, speak out in unison regarding the truth on 
this matter. Granted, if only one or two such persons come forward, the case will be weak, and 
the risk will be unacceptable. But if ten, twenty or more such witnesses come together, and 
united, resolve to share their information and experiences on this subject, then a definitive case 
will be made , and a great service to the world and their country will be fulfilled. 


The return of this matter to the legal channels of government and the deliberation of the 
people is one of the great unfulfilled tasks of the post cold war era. Over half a decade has 
elapsed since the end of the cold war, and there can no longer be a justification (if there ever was) 




358 






for this type of extraordinary secrecy and covert agenda. Both national and world security 
requires that this matter be returned to the world community as soon as possible. 


We recommend that men and women of vision, courage and dedication join with us in 
fulfilling this task. Far from being a legal violation of ‘security oaths’, the public testimony by 
such witnesses is a highly moral and legal act. Further, is it not true that the continuation of this 
secrecy itself is illegal and immoral, given the inherent unconstitutionality of such programs? 
Credible witnesses, joining together and providing their testimony in a united strategy can return 
this subject to legal oversight and control, and thereby enable the people of our country and of the 
world to begin the public deliberations which should have occurred 50 years ago. 


5.0 THE ISSUES - POSITION PAPERS 


Introduction 


The following “position papers” were written by Dr. Greer over the past eight years to either 
summarize the state of our understanding of UFO/ETI issues or to provide briefing documents for 
members of the government or the Joint Chiefs of Staff. They are divided into three main topical 
sections consisting of: 


1 . Background and history; 


2. The need for disclosure; 


3. The implications of disclosure. 


Although they can be read in any sequence, in order to really grasp the depth and complexity of 
the whole UFO/ET issue, we recommend that you read them in the sequence they are listed. The 
shaip reader will find some repetition in some of the articles a result of the fact they were written 
as standalone documents for different audiences over a several year period. 


In a number of the papers, our disclosure effort is mentioned. This refers to the mid-1990s 
efforts of the Disclosure Project to bring the whole UFO/ET issue to the attention of world 
leaders. The project held a major closed congressional briefing in April, 1997 to urge congress to 
hold congressional hearings with witnesses in order to bring the reality of the subject to the 
attention of the media, government, academics, and the public. No one in congress was brave 
enough to urge that hearings be held at that time. 


There are other papers written by Dr. Greer on this subject that are not included in this 
Disclosure document due to space restrictions. Some of them can be found on the Disclosure 


37 


Project website at www.DisclosureProiect.org or in Dr. Greer’s book. 




37 Greer, Steven M. Extraterrestrial Contact: The Evidence and Implications, Crossing Point, Inc. Publications, 
Afton, VA. 1999 Available at www.DrGreer.com 




359 






5.1 Need for Disclosure and Dangers of Continued Secrecy 


5.1.1 Operational Readiness and the Unidentified Flying Object/Extraterrestrial 
Intelligence (UFO/ETI) Subject: Why Military and National Security Leaders Have 
a Need To Know 




Steven M. Greer M.D., 22 August 1998 




Abstract: 


Key military and national security leaders have been inadequately informed on the UFO/ETI 
subject due to its management under Unacknowledged Special Access Projects (USAPS). This 
lack of information has resulted in substantial national security risks. The risk of inadequate 
and/or dangerous actions by uninformed or misinformed leaders is greatly increased by the lack 
of in-depth briefings and discussions on this subject. Key areas of operational readiness are thus 
placed “at risk” by these leaders being dangerously uninformed or misinformed on such matters 
as the following: 


> Use of Alien Reproduction Vehicles (ARVs) in false indications and warnings (I &W) 
scenarios; 


> The unexpected appearance and disappearance of extraterrestrial vehicles with super- 
luminal speed (faster than light) capabilities; 


> Unanticipated extraterrestrial concern over deployment of space-based military and other 
assets. 


Senior military leaders and senior national security leaders, including the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, the National Security Council, Senior Watch Officers in the National Military Command 
Center, key Congressional leaders, the President, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of 
Central Intelligence, among others, clearly have a need-to-know regarding the issues above. 


Background and Introduction: 


Since 1990, the Disclosure Project, a non-profit research organization based in the United 
States, has been conducting original research into the subject of UFOs and Extraterrestrial 
Intelligence (ETI). In 1991, an initial Comprehensive Assessment was completed and since that 
time the Disclosure Project has been investigating the subject through real-time field expeditions 
throughout the world and through the identification of scientific evidence and information sources 
with direct knowledge of the subject. Sources for our information and subsequent assessments 
include: 


> Direct, real-time observation of UFOs/Extraterrestrial Objects via field research 
teams deployed throughout the world; 


> Collection of retrospective evidence with thousands of case reports, including 
military and civilian pilot encounters, military and civilian radar contact with these 
objects, landing trace cases, photographic and videotape evidence and thousands of 
pages of declassified government documents; 


> Extensive interviews with several dozen scientists, military and civilian witnesses in 
intelligence and other programs and civilian research witnesses who have been 




360 






involved in covert programs. These witnesses have had direct, personal knowledge 
of UFO/ETI events and covert programs, including the retrieval and reverse 
engineering of extraterrestrial spacecraft and the covert applications of technological 
breakthroughs resulting from possession of these spacecraft. 


The above sources and research have resulted in a number of assessments regarding the 
subject in general and national security implications in particular. These are provided as separate 
attachments to this document. 


Overview of UFO-Related USAPs: 


While tight compartmentation of intelligence and programs is often needed to maintain 
security of sensitive operations, excessive classification and compartmentation poses a threat to 
national security and military readiness and is contrary to Presidential directives. In the case of 
the UFO/ETI subject, extreme secrecy and multiple levels of special compartmentation has 
existed since the 1940s. This extreme secrecy, together with the special nature of the 
technologies involved, has resulted in a potentially dangerous situation with respect to lack of 
oversight of actions not in the national interest, significant degradation in military readiness to 
deal with events related to ETI/UFO and total lack of Congressional oversight. 


The nature of the covert entity/USAP which currently manages the UFO matter is described 
in the above paper “ Unacknowledged ” in section 3.4. Briefly, this unusual USAP has the 
following characteristics: 


> Global in scope; 


> Multiple levels of sub-compartmentalization; 


> Primarily based in the civilian, privatized contracting/work-for-others sectors; 


> Runs parallel to and generally separate from conventional government, military and 
intelligence programs, including other sensitive USAPs/black projects; 


> Exists as a hybrid entity which draws from high technology corporations and 
compartmented, government, intelligence and military operations, but which in effect 
functions as an independent, separate entity; 


> Apparently is controlled by no single branch of conventional government, military 
service or agency; 


> In general, access to this project is by project-controlled inclusion and access has 
little to do with the individual’s position in government, military ra nk or position in 
the traditional (constitutional) chain of command; 


> After nearly 60 years of studying advanced extraterrestrial technologies from 
retrieved ET devices, the group that controls this USAP possesses substantial 
technologies that may present a threat to conventional military assets and to world 
security in general; 


> Funding for these operations is derived both from the so-called “black budget” and 
from “creative,” non-governmental sources; 


> Maintenance of secrecy/control over this project has been at all costs and has 
consistently violated legal, constitutional oversight and checks and balances and the 
rights of U.S. citizens. 


Discussions with a sitting Director of Central Intelligence, senior White House staff, senior 
members of Congress serving on key, relevant committees, senior military staff in the US and 




361 






UK, among others, has shown that access to projects related to UFOs / ETI is not related to 
position or constitutional law. Five star Admiral and former UK Minister of Defense, Lord Hill- 
Norton has confirmed that a similar arrangement exists in the United Kingdom. Directed inquiry 
by such officials has not resulted in disclosure, even when the request originated from the office 
of the President of the United States. 


Why Key Military and National Security Leadership Need to Know: 


There are several inter-related aspects of the UFO/ETI issue, which necessitate key military, 
intelligence and national security leaders knowing about this matter. Failure by such leaders to be 
adequately informed has resulted in a situation wherein important decisions and actions may be 
made which could result in extremely undesirable outcomes. The capabilities of the UFO/ETI 
USAP allow for widespread deception of chain-of-command leadership and for surprise 
scenarios, which could be catastrophically misinterpreted. 


Moreover, while there is no objective evidence that the non-human life forms behind the 
genuine extraterrestrial events are at all hostile towards the Earth or humanity in general, events 
could be - and more importantly we understand have been - negatively misinterpreted, leading to 
unwarranted human military actions against such ET assets. Such actions constitute a genuine 
world security threat about which conventional military and civilian leadership is unaware. In 
order to avoid the potential for future human military actions, which could lead, to a dangerous 
escalation of events, it is imperative that military and national security leadership be adequately 
informed on this subject. 


Below is a brief summary of scenarios and activities, which illustrate why such leaders have 
an immediate need to know on this matter: 


> Misidentification of UFO/Extraterrestrial assets . Since there are both genuine 
extraterrestrial and look-alike human engineered ARV (Alien Reproduction Vehicle) 
assets, the risk for confusion and misidentification is real. Such confusion could result in 
actions that could then lead to unintended results (See also False Indications and 
Warnings below). 


> Surprise by extraterrestrial object . In the past, senior military commanders have been 
surprised by the sudden appearance of extraterrestrial objects and have taken hostile 
actions towards them. For example, in October of 1981, such an object appeared off of 
the eastern seaboard, triggering pandemonium in the U.S. Atlantic Fleet 
(CINCLANTFLT) Command Center. This object, estimated 300 feet in diameter and 
disc shaped, was able to rapidly move, in one radar sweep from an area off the coast of 
Newfoundland to off the coast of Norfolk, Virginia. During this daylight event, the U.S. 
Atlantic Fleet Command Center went to Condition Zebra alert (“Stripes”) and orders 
were given by NORAD to the CINC, ADM Harry Train, to identify this object and even 
force it down if necessary. Fighters were scrambled from land and sea-based forces and, 
while one fighter got close enough to clearly photograph the object, it moved in the span 
of one radar sweep from off the coast of Norfolk, Virginia to an area in the Atlantic 
Ocean near the Canary Islands, turned upward at a 60 degree angle, and left the Earth’s 
atmosphere. This situation, which resulted in surprise to the CINC, chaos on the 
Command Center Floor, and orders to force down the object (which could have had 
catastrophic consequences) could have been avoided with concept and scenario briefings 
to top military leaders and the development of clear “Special Rules of Engagement” 
(ROEs) for these unique situations. 




362 






> Misinterpretation of Extraterrestrial Actions . It is our assessment that more that one 
extraterrestrial civilization is involved in reconnaissance of the Earth and in surveillance 
of global military developments. In the past, extraterrestrial concern over weapons of 
mass destruction has led to technological demonstrations at certain strategic sites, such as 
SAC ICBM facilities at Minot ND in November of 1975, which had its strategic launch 
capabilities inerted. Similar neutralization, we understand, occurred in the USSR. While 
such an event would understandably generate human military concern, it is important for 
such events to be interpreted in a broader context, which is non-anthropocentric. While 
one view may hold that this action demonstrated extraterrestrial hostility, it is more likely 
that, given the event’s non-violent nature, that it was intended to be a message of great 
concern over such globally destructive weapon systems. Unless leadership is adequately 
briefed on this subject, the potential for a catastrophic misinterpretation of extraterrestrial 
actions and intentions exists. 


> Extraterrestrial concern over space-based military assets . It is our understanding that the 
extraterrestrial view of human military assets being placed in space is very unfavorable 
and that in the recent past certain events have taken place which underscore this ET 
viewpoint. U.S. Space Command and other military entities dealing with space or which 
interface with and depend upon space-based assets need to be aware of this concern. It 
appears that ET concern is based on the increasing militarization of space, combined with 
a continued high level of human warfare and violence and the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction. There is also reason to believe that covert USAP programs are 
targeting ET assets with increasing frequency and efficacy (see below). 


> Multiple credible first-hand military and intelligence program witnesses have described 
covert USAP utilization of advanced weapons systems to track, target and destroy 
extraterrestrial spacecraft. Such events have apparently increased in frequency and 
accuracy since the 1980s. If true, this constitutes a grave national and world security 
crisis about which key leaders have an urgent need to know. In light of the testimony that 
we have heard, simple denials that such events are not occurring or are somehow justified 
are not sufficient grounds to dismiss these reports or take a hands-off approach. Key 
military and national security leaders need to fully investigate this matter and produce a 
full assessment of the situation for the National Command Authorities (NCA), the 
Chairman, Joints Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), and key congressional leadership. 


> Multiple, military and civilian witnesses involved in covert programs dealing with this 
subject and having first-hand personal knowledge have corroborated reports of UFO/ETI 
related USAPS’ intent to utilize reverse-engineered ET based technologies to stage 
(hoax) ET events of a violent nature. The existence of a very powerful covert USAP 
which possesses extraordinarily advanced technologies capable of 
materialization/dematerialization, faster- than- light travel, antigravity propulsion and 
related systems is in itself a direct threat to conventional and constitutional military and 
national security leadership and control. Such an entity, unless fully under direct, legal 
and constitutional chain of command oversight, and control, has great potential for abuse, 
deception and manipulation of traditional governmental leadership. For example, an 
important intelligence witness has described the planned use of ARVs in a false 
indications and warnings scenario in which the ARVs would attack conventional military 
assets to make it appear that we were being attacked by hostile extraterrestrial life forms. 
If military and national security leaders do not know of such covert human capabilities, 




363 






they could be deceived by such a scenario and could then issue orders for unwarranted 
and potentially catastrophic counter-measures against genuine ET assets. 


> Sub-electromagnetic, non-linear communications systems of extraterrestrial origin which 
interface directly with consciousness and thought have been reverse-engineered by covert 
USAPs and can be used against civilian and military leadership in False I and W 
scenarios. Information directly from a foreign head of state suggests that this has already 
occurred. Such non-linear telemetry systems, which bypass linear time/space and 
interface directly with mind and thought can be modified to induce hoaxed but very real 
experiences in target subjects. Senior military and civilian national security leaders need 
to know about the potential of these systems, thus minimizing the deceptive value of such 
systems should they be directed against them. (Alleged “Alien Abduction” experiences 
are largely the result of the misuse of these systems by covert USAPs.) 


> NASA, civilian astronomers and other scientists are increasingly concerned about the 
possibility of an Earth orbit-crossing asteroid or comet impacting the Earth. Teams at JPL 
and elsewhere have already detected thousands of such Earth orbit-crossing objects 
within our solar system. Large impacts in the past have created what is now the Gulf of 
Mexico, Hudson Bay and other geological features on the surface of the Earth. Most 
scientists agree that it is not a question of ‘if, but ‘when’, such an impact will take place. 
Conventional scientists have discussed using nuclear weapons and other conventional 
means to avert such an impact. However, it is clear that UFO related USAPS possess 
technologies which are far more advanced and which could be brought to bear on this 
problem. This is especially true of gravity-altering technologies that could be used to 
change the mass effect of such an object and move it off of an Earth- intersecting course. 
Since such an impact could potentially terminate human civilization as we know it, senior 
military and civilian national security leaders should have knowledge of and access to 
such UFO USAP related technologies. Moreover, use of such technologies in space for 
such a critical and beneficial purpose may be dependent on the perception by ET s that 
such space deployment would be only for peaceful purposes. We understand that this is 
not the current perception. 


Conclusions: 


> Disclosure of the reality of the UFO/ETI subject and associated technologies would 
certainly alter many aspects of life on Earth, including geopolitical relations, 
technology, economics and the general social order. Military and national security 
leaders unaware of the subject cannot adequately anticipate the far-reaching 
implications of such a disclosure and would therefore be unprepared. Since the 
Disclosure Project and others are actively pursuing such a disclosure in the relatively 
near future, it is important that leaders understand these implications fully and are 
able to respond to the challenges of such a disclosure in an orderly manner. Should a 
sudden, undeniable extraterrestrial event occur, it is even more important that 
military and national security leaders be informed and are prepared to respond 
properly to the situation. 


> The energy and propulsion technologies associated with extraterrestrial spacecraft 
utilize the zero-point field of energy, do not rely on nuclear or internal combustion 
engines and are therefore non-polluting. One of the great ‘wild cards’ facing the 
military and national and world security leaders is the eventual exhaustion of fossil 
fuels and the concomitant decay in the Earth’s ecosystem. With the rapid 
industrialization of China, India and much of the third world, the damage to the 




364 






Earth’s ecosystem will only accelerate exponentially, even as the fuel sources are 
more rapidly diminished. Currently, we exist as a terminal technological civilization 
- a serious long-term security issue indeed. However, the covert USAP responsible 
for UFO/ETI matters has already reversed-engineered energy and propulsion systems 
which render the internal combustion engine obsolete. We estimate that this 
breakthrough occurred between 1954 and 1957. Ben Rich of Lockheed Skunkworks, 
prior to his death, confirmed to a Disclosure Project consultant that “we already have 
the means to travel among the stars, but these technologies are locked up in black 
projects and it would take an act of God to ever get them out to benefit humanity...” 
Long term national security planning necessitates the eventual (and preferably near- 
term) release of these technologies for the benefit of mankind and the preservation of 
the planet. Certainly national security and military leaders should understand these 
technologies, which will replace the entire global energy and internal combustion 
infrastructure. Moreover, they should anticipate the implications related to the release 
of such technologies so that the transition to sustainable energy systems can be as 
smooth and peaceful as possible. 


These are a few of the national security and military implications of the UFO/ETI subject — any 
one of which justifies a full briefing to leadership on the subject. 


Recommendations : 


We recommend senior military and national security leaders take the following actions: 


> Receive a thorough briefing on the subject by Disclosure Project leadership and 
military /civilian witnesses 


> Fully brief CINCS, and develop special ROEs for ETI/UFO encounters. 


> Independently investigate the subject and penetrate USAP operations related to the 


subject 


> Become fully involved in covert projects related to the subject to ensure that such 
projects are adequately supervised and are under the direct and continuous control of 
the constitutional chain of command 


> Correct and/or restrain any USAPS’s covert misuse of advanced technologies or 
weapon systems related to UFOs. 


> Attempt peaceful, cooperative engagement of these life forms and assiduously avoid 
violent military engagement. The Disclosure Project has a prototype project which 
was been peacefully engaging ETI for over 7 years and suggests that national and 
international leaders adopt a similar approach 


> Carefully consider the deployment of space-based military assets in light of the above 
information and avoid actions, which may be viewed as bellicose or hostile by 
extraterrestrial life forms. 


5.2 National Security Implications of the UFO/ETI Subject: A Brief Summary 


copyright Steven M. Greer, MD 30 August 1995 


National Security Implications of the UFO/ETI subject are profound and far-reaching, albeit 
currently largely unrecognized. 




365 






These implications may be considered in separate but related aspects: those intrinsic to ET 
activity and those arising from current covert management of the issue. 


Historical Background: 


Early National Security considerations dealt with concern over public panic arising from the 
detection of near Earth and Earth-landed extraterrestrial spacecraft (ETS) and from the 
technological implications of advanced Extraterrestrial material as it may impact the arms race 
and cold war. Additional concerns were related to the impact on religious belief systems, the 
political order and economic systems. 


Importantly, once actual ETS were retrieved in 1947, thereby allowing Extraterrestrial 
hardware to be studied and back- engineered for possible human military applications, the need 
for complete secrecy regarding the matter was deemed paramount by authorities at that time. 
Given the tensions of the early atomic era and the mounting “cold war” with the USSR, it is 
understandable that the introduction of Extraterrestrial technology was thought to be destabilizing 
to an already dangerous situation. Moreover, given the history of technological secrets related to 
atomic and hydrogen weapons being stolen by agents of the USSR, there was understandable 
concern that any technological breakthrough related to Extraterrestrial technology might find its 
way into Soviet hands. If such an event enabled the USSR to produce actual military applications 
before the US, obviously this would have placed the US military capability in a potentially 
catastrophic disadvantage. 


Since the 1970’s, we have reason to believe that a degree of cooperation on this matter has 
evolved with the USSR and the US and perhaps other nations. Certainly the end of the cold war 
has largely removed earlier concerns vis a vis technological breakthroughs and the fear of Soviet 
aggression. 


Moreover, the psychological reasons for secrecy related to public panic are not valid today. 
At least 57% of the population accept that UFOs are real and are of Extraterrestrial origin. And 
30-40 years of space exploration by human society has prepared the population for the possible 
existence of other Extraterrestrial civilizations capable of space travel. In short, the previous 
concerns motivating secrecy are not relevant today. 


Intrinsically, there is no reason to believe that the Extraterrestrial presence poses a threat to 
the national or world security. If hostility and aggression were related to their purpose here, it is 
likely that events congruent with hostility would have transpired long before now. It is our 
assessment that the Extraterrestrials are not hostile, but are very concerned with human capability 
related to warfare and the militarization of space. Activity by Extraterrestrial assets related to the 
neutralization of ICBM facilities and to containing military oriented space exploration should be 
understood in light of their concern over a known history of human aggression that has been 
coupled with the advent of weapons of mass destruction and space exploration. Indeed, given the 
past history of human military assets focusing on and pursuing Extraterrestrial Spacecraft, we 
believe the Extraterrestrials have responded with remarkable restraint. 


Ironically, the threat to national security exists not with the Extraterrestrial presence, but the 
current covert management of the subject . In the absence of Extraterrestrial hostility over 50 
years , current secrecy cannot be justified on the basis of fear of Extraterrestrial aggression. A 
disclosure related to the Extraterrestrial presence, if calmly and rationally presented, will not 
cause public panic in the US or elsewhere. 1995 is not 1945, and world society has evolved to 
the point where this information can be assimilated in a positive fashion. 




366 






In contrast, the covert and apparently extra-constitutional management of this matter is a real 
threat to national and world security, and undermines constitutional freedom and democracy. 
Unless it is terminated, this covert management will greatly harm US national security and the 
chances of a lasting world peace. 


It is our assessment that the current covert management of this issue involves the following 
elements which are a direct, immediate and ongoing threat to the national security: 


1 . The continued denial of the Extraterrestrial presence creates a situation where a sudden, 
undeniable, public Extraterrestrial event could induce panic, since proactive disclosure 
efforts, which could ameliorate public fears, are non-existent. It is likely that such a 
public Extraterrestrial event will transpire within the next 2-10 years or sooner. 
Therefore secrecy and denial are a real threat to national and world security. 


2. The current covert management of this issue appears to be operating independently and 
outside of the constitutional chain of command. The group controlling these operations, 
which involve reconnaissance, Extraterrestrial technology reverse-engineering, and 
space-based targeting of ETS (among others) is non-responsive to congressional or 
Executive branch oversight and control. This constitutes a real threat to the national 
security and to constitutional democracy and freedom. 


3. We have credible, first hand sources who insist that extraterrestrial spacecraft have been 
targeted by human covert space weapons and on at least two occasions have been 
destroyed. If true, the risks to world peace and security are real and imminent, and the 
continuation of these covert activities constitutes the gravest dangers to national and 
world security. Hostile actions taken by human covert assets against Extraterrestrial 
assets constitute a grave and immediate threat to the national security. A relatively small, 
covert entity, acting without consultation with the United Nations, the Congress, the 
President of the United States or the public is engaging in actions on behalf of all humans 
which endanger the Earth and world peace. Unless controlled, these actions could 
precipitate interplanetary conflict and a disaster for the world generally and the United 
States specifically. This covert management must be terminated and control of this issue 
returned to constitutional authority and to the public domain. 


4. The concentration of the technological advances related to the reverse-engineering of 
Extraterrestrial technology into the hands of a small covert operation constitutes a threat 
to the national security, to world security and to the future of the Earth. These 
Extraterrestrial technologies, which have been the object of covert research and 
development for over 45 years, are potentially of great benefit to humanity if used wisely 
for peaceful purposes, but are of immense danger when concentrated into a small covert 
operation that is unresponsive to the pubic or the legal and constitutional chain of 
command. The threat this poses to the US and world security is great, and the longer this 
situation continues, the greater the concentration of advanced technological power in the 
hands of a relative few. The secret control of such powerful technologies is inherently a 
threat to freedom, democracy and to our nation and the world. Its utilization for covert 
agendas outside constitutional control represents a grave danger to our country and must 
be restrained and reversed. 


5. Importantly, secrecy and covert operatives per se constitute a real threat to the national 
security, since national security in a constitutional democracy can only be legitimately 
related to freedom and democratic government. Only in very rare and well-justified 




367 






circumstances can extreme secrecy and covert operations exist, since by nature freedom 
and democracy cannot co-exist with unrestrained secrecy and secret power. The 
profound implications of the detection of Extraterrestrial civilizations cannot be allowed 
to be the exclusive domain of covert operations that are unrelated to public discourse and 
consultation. To do so is to undermine the US Constitution, democracy and freedom, and 
this constitutes a serious threat to the national security. 


6. Finally, exclusive covert control of this matter has resulted and continues to result in the 
loss of opportunity for the world to come to terms with the Extraterrestrial presence in a 
peaceful and mutually beneficial fashion. This means that the people of the world, the 
United Nations and other international and national institutions are deprived of the 
opportunity to deal rationally with this issue. National and world security are therefore 
negatively impacted by the loss of opportunities in the following areas: 


> The Environment, which is seriously at risk for large-scale collapse over the next 
100 years, would be profoundly improved if extraterrestrial technologies could 
be peacefully deployed. So-called zero point or free energy systems, which are 
non-polluting, would permit a sustainable technological civilization to exist on 
Earth and would transform the Earth environmentally and economically. 
Establishing peaceful and mutually beneficial relations with extraterrestrial 
civilizations would eventually permit us to understand and apply such 
technologies. 


> World unity and peace will be enhanced by the global realization that we are not 
alone in the universe. The acknowledgement of this fact will enhance the 
awareness that we are really one people living on the shared homeland of Earth, 
and many of the conflicts currently afflicting the Earth will be seen in a new 
perspective. This can be achieved without either deifying or demonizing the 
extraterrestrial presence, but rather placing it in a fair, scientific and neutral light. 
Eventually, world peace and a significant enhancement in the current geopolitical 
situation may result from the disclosure that we are not alone. An international 
infrastructure, and institutions capable of dealing peacefully with relations with 
extraterrestrial civilizations would, of necessity, evolve, and this in turn would 
strengthen world unity and cooperation. 


> World culture, ideas, science and many other diverse areas may benefit through 
the development of peaceful relations with other worlds. While this process may 
take decades, if not centuries, its delay only puts off the time when the people of 
the Earth will be united not only globally, but with other planetary civilizations 
as well. 


In summary, it is imperative to the national security that the President and Congress 
undertake measures to terminate the secret, covert management of the UFO/ETI subject. Failure 
to place this matter in open, public discourse and control constitutes the gravest failure of 
democracy and government in the history of the world. That we do this is the test of our faith in 
democracy and our faith in the people. As the 21st century approaches, we must roll up the 
cancerous excesses of secrecy that are the legacy of the cold war and unfurl a new era wherein 
democracy is reaffirmed and a lasting world peace is given a chance. 




368 






5.3 New Energy Solutions and Implications for the National Security and The 


Environment: A Brief Overview for the US Senate Committee on the 


Environment and Public Works 


Steven M. Greer M.D., October 2000 


The ultimate national security issue is intimately linked to the pressing environmental crisis 
facing the world today: The question of whether humanity can continue as a technologically 
advanced civilization. 


Fossil fuels and the internal combustion engine are non-sustainable both environmentally and 
economically - and a replacement for both already exists. The question is not whether we will 
transition to a new post-fossil fuel economy, but when and how. The environmental, economic, 
geopolitical, national security and military issues related to this matter are profound and 
inextricably linked to one another. 


The disclosure of such new energy technologies will have far-reaching implications for every 
aspect of human society and the time has come to prepare for such an event. For if such 
technologies were announced today, it would take at least 10-20 years for their widespread 
application to be effected. This is approximately how much time we have before global 
economic chaos begins due to demand far exceeding the supply of oil and environmental decay 
becomes exponential and catastrophic. 


We have found that the technologies to replace fossil fuel usage already exist and need to be 
exploited and applied immediately to avert a serious global economic, geopolitical and 
environmental crisis in the not-so-distant future. 


In summary, these technologies fall into the following broad categories: 


> Quantum vacuum/zero point field energy access systems and related advances in 
electromagnetic theory and applications; 


> Electrogravitic and magnetogravitic energy and propulsion; 


> Room temperature nuclear effects; 


> Electrochemical and related advances to internal combustion systems, which achieve 
near zero emissions and very high efficiency. 


A number of practical applications using such technologies have been developed over the 
past several decades, but such breakthroughs have been either ignored due to their unconventional 
nature — or have been classified and suppressed due to national security, military interests and 
“special” interests. 


Let us be clear: the question is not whether such systems exist and can be viable replacements 
for fossil fuels. The question is whether we have the courage to allow such a transformation in 
world society to occur. 


Such technologies — especially those that bypass the need to use an external fuel source such 
as oil or coal — would have obvious and beneficial effects for humanity. Since these 
technologies do not require an expensive source of fuel but instead use existing quantum space 




369 






energy, a revolution in the world’s economic and social order would result. These implications 
include: 


> The removal of all sources of air pollution related to energy generation, including 
electric power plants, cars, trucks, aircraft and manufacturing; 


> The ability to “scrub” to near zero effluent all manufacturing processes since the 
energy per se required for same would have no cost related to fuel consumption. This 
would allow the full application of technologies, which would remove effluent from 
smokestacks, solid waste from waterways, because current applications are generally 
restricted by their energy costs and the fact that such energy consumption — being 
fossil fuel based — soon reaches the point of diminishing returns environmentally; 


> The practical achievement of an environmentally near-zero impact yet high tech 
civilization on Earth, thus assuring the long-term sustainability of human civilization; 


> Trillions of dollars now spent on electric power generation, gas, oil, coal and nuclear 
power would be freed to be spent on more productive and environmentally neutral 
endeavors by both individuals and society as a whole; 


> Underdeveloped regions of the Earth would be lifted out of poverty and into a high 
technology world in about a generation — but without the associated infrastructure 
costs and environmental impact related to traditional energy generation and 
propulsion. Since these new systems generate energy from the ambient quantum 
energy state, trillion dollar infrastructure investments in centralized power generation 
and distribution would be eliminated. Remote villages and towns would have the 
ability to generate energy for manufacturing, electrification, water purification etc 
without purchasing fuels or building massive transmission lines and central power 
grids; 


> Near total recycling of resources and materials would be possible since the energy 
costs for doing so — now the main obstacle — would be brought down to a trivial 
level; 


> The vast disparity between rich and poor nations would quickly disappear — and with 
it much of the zero-sum-game mentality which is at the root of so much social, political 
and international unrest. In a world of abundant and inexpensive energy, many of the 
pressures that have led to a cycle of poverty, exploitation, resentment and violence 
would be removed from the social dynamic. While ideological, cultural and religious 
differences would persist, the raw economic disparity and struggle would be removed 
from the equation fairly quickly; 


> Surface roads — and therefore most road building — will be unnecessary as 
electrogravitic / antigravity energy and propulsion systems replace current surface 
transportation systems; 


> The world economy would expand dramatically and those advanced economies such as 
in the US and Europe would benefit tremendously as global trade, development and 
high technology energy and propulsion devices are demanded around the world. Such a 
global energy revolution would create an expanding world economy which would 
make the current computer and Internet economy look like a rounding error. This really 
would be the tide that would lift all ships; 




370 






> Long term, society would evolve to a psychology of abundance, which would redound 
to the benefit of humanity as a whole, a peaceful civilization and a society focused 
increasingly on creative pursuits rather than destructive and violent endeavors. 


Lest all of this sound like a pipe dream, keep in mind that such technological advances are 
not only possible, but they already exist. What is lacking are the collective will, creativity and 
courage to see that they are applied wisely. And therein lies the problem. 


As an emergency and trauma doctor, I know that everything can be used for good or for ill. A 
knife can butter your bread — or cut your throat. Every technology can have beneficial as well as 
harmful applications. 


The latter partially explains the serious national security and military concerns with such 
technologies. For many decades, these advances in energy and propulsion technologies have been 
acquired, suppressed and classified by certain interests who have viewed them as a threat to our 
security from both an economic and military perspective. In the short term, these concerns have 
been well-founded: Why rock the global economic boat by allowing technologies out which 
would, effectively, terminate the multi-trillion dollar oil, gas, coal, internal combustion engine 
and related transportation sectors of the economy? And which could also unleash such 
technologies on an unstable and dangerous world where the weapons applications for such 
technological breakthroughs would be a certainty? In the light of this, the status quo looks good. 


But only for the short term. In fact, such national security and military policies -fed by huge 
special interests in obvious industries and nations — have exacerbated global geopolitical 
tensions by impoverishing much of the world, worsening the zero-sum-game mind set of the rich 
vs. poor nations and brought us to a world energy emergency and a pending environmental crisis. 
And now we have very little time to fix the situation. Such thinking must be relegated to the past. 


For what can be a greater threat to the national security than the specter of a collapse of our 
entire civilization from a lack of energy and global chaos as every nation fights for its share of a 
limited resource? Due to the long lead-time needed to transform the current industrial 
infrastructure away from fossil fuels, we are facing a national security emergency, which almost 
nobody is talking about. This is dangerous. 


It has also created a serious constitutional crisis in the US and other countries where non- 
representative entities and super- secret projects within compartmented military and corporate 
areas have begun to set national and international policy on this and related matters — all outside 
the arena of public debate, and mostly without informed consent from Congress or the President. 


Indeed this crisis is undermining democracy in the US and elsewhere. I have had the 
unenviable task of personally briefing senior political, military, and intelligence officials in the 
US and Europe on this and related matters. These officials have been denied access to 
information compartmented within certain projects that are, frankly, unacknowledged areas (so- 
called “black” projects). Such officials include members of the House and Senate, President 
Clinton’s first Director of Central Intelligence, the head of the DIA, senior Joint Staff officials 
and others. Usually, the officials have little to no information on such projects and technologies 
- and are told either nothing or that they do not have a “need to know” if they specifically inquire. 


This presents then another problem: these technologies will not be suppressed forever. For 
example, our group is planning a near term disclosure of such technologies and we will not be 
silenced. At the time of such a disclosure, will the US government be prepared? It would 




371 






behoove the US government and others to be informed and have a plan for transitioning our 
society from fossil fuels to these new energy and propulsion systems. 


Indeed, the great danger is ignorance by our leaders of these scientific breakthroughs — and 
ignorance of how to manage their disclosure. The advanced countries of the world must be 
prepared to put systems in place to assure the exclusive peaceful use of such energy and 
propulsion advances. Economic and industrial interests should be prepared so that those aspects 
of our economy that will be adversely affected (commodities, oil, gas, coal, public utilities, 
engine manufacturing, etc.) can be cushioned from sudden reversals and be economically 
“hedged” by investing in and supporting the new energy infrastructure. 


A creative view of the future — not fear and suppression of such technologies — is required. 
And it is needed immediately. If we wait 10-20 more years, it will be too late to make the 
needed changes before world oil shortages, exorbitant costs and geopolitical competition for 
resources causes a melt-down in the world’s economy and political structures. 


All systems tend towards homeostasis. The status quo is comfortable and secure. Change is 
frightening. But in this case, the most dangerous course for the national security is inaction. We 
must be prepared for the coming convulsions related to energy shortages, spiraling costs and 
economic disruption. The best preparation would be a replacement for oil and related fossil fuels. 
And we have it. But disclosing these new energy systems carries its own set of benefits, risks and 
challenges. The US government and the Congress must be prepared to wisely manage this great 
challenge. 


Recommendations for Congress: 


> Thoroughly investigate these new technologies both from current civilian sources as 
well as compartmented projects within military, intelligence and corporate 
contracting areas; 


> Authorize the declassification and release of information held within compartmented 
projects related to this subject; 


> Specifically prohibit the seizing or suppression of such technologies; 


> Authorize substantial funding for basic research and development by civilian 
scientists and technologists into these areas; 


> Develop plans for dealing with disclosing such technologies and for the transition to 
a non-fossil fuel economy. These plans should include: military and national security 
planning; strategic economic planning and preparation; private sector support and 
cooperation; geopolitical planning, especially as it pertains to OPEC countries and 
regions whose economies are very dependent on oil exports and the price of oil; 
international cooperation and security; among others. 


I personally stand ready to assist the Congress in any way possible to facilitate our use of 
these new energy sources. Having dealt with this and related sensitive matters for over 10 years, 
I can recommend a number of individuals who can be subpoenaed to provide testimony on such 
technologies, as well as people who have information on unacknowledged special access projects 
within covert government operations that are already dealing with these issues. 


If we face these challenges with courage and with wisdom together, we can secure for our 
children a new and sustainable world, free of poverty and environmental destruction. We will be 
up to this challenge, because we must be. 




372 






6.0 




BACKGROUND MATERIALS 




6.1 Introduction to the Best Available Evidence 


The following sections present a series of well-know sightings and cases. 


In a recent book on UFO issues, reporter and writer Jim Marrs 38 states the following at the 
start of his Introduction (p. x): 


“The controversy over the existence of UFOs is over. UFOs are real. Only those persons 
whose outlook prevents them from dealing honestly with the massive amounts of 
documentation and reports collected over the past five decades still cling to the idea that 
nothing soars in the skies of Earth exception man’s imagination.” 


Well, where is this “massive amounts of documentation” and why is it not more widely 
known? It is all around us, you just have to look. At present there is a boom in information about 
UFOs available to the public. For example, as of February 2001, Amazon Booksellers listed 581 
books under the search criteria of UFO on their web site. For the more research oriented, there 
are several large compilations of sightings available. 


One of the largest computer databases of UFO sightings in the public domain is 
UFOCAT2000, which has over 109,000 UFO reports and related information. As described on 
their web site (http://www.cufos.org/UFOCAT.htmlj , the UFOCAT is the result of a 30-year 
effort that began during the Air Force sponsored Colorado UFO Project, also known as the 
“Condon Committee.” UFOCAT was begun by Dr. David R. Saunders, who at the time was a co- 
Principal Investigator on the Colorado UFO study and professor of Psychology at the University 
of Colorado. 


Another major computerized source of sighting information is the compilation entitled “*U* 
Database,” which as of February, 2001 contains over 17,750 carefully filtered UFO events 
compiled from over 365 book, newspapers, periodicals and private sources. Information about 
this database can be found on the web at Larry Hatch’s web site: http://www.ips.net/laiTyhat . 


For the last few years, retired Air Force Captain George Filer 39 compiled and published 
(through email) UFO sighting reports, many with editorial comment, from around the US and the 
world. These are sent out on nearly a weekly basis. His reports for the last four years 1997 
through 2000 are available on a CD from: Maiorstar@aol.com . 


For contemporary sighting’s information nearly as they happen, the National UFO Research 
Center (NUFORC) run by Peter Davenport (web site: http://www.msatech.com/nuforc) provides 
good information on what people are reporting to them and a searchable database covering 
reports over the past several years. What do these reports represent in terms of what people are 
actually seeing? Peter Davenport reported to us in a recent email that NUFORC receives on 
average 10-20 reports a day with a range of half a dozen to many dozens a day. He states: “Given 
that probably only one in 100 reports is recorded anywhere, that statistic provides some insight 
into how many UFO sightings occur per day. I suspect that the percentage of sightings reported 
may range to as low as one in 1,000.” This suggests that there are perhaps 15 xlOO or about 1500 




38 Marrs, Jim. 1997. Alien Agenda, HarperCollins Publishers, NY, 434pp. 


39 See George Filer witness testimony in section 3.8.4. 




373 




sightings of UFOs per day occurring, which is several hundred thousands of sightings per year. 
Now, as to why this is not more widely known, that is a complex question, which, in part, this 
overall document attempts to address. 


The evidence presented here from over two dozen witnesses is particularly compelling in that 
not only were most of the witnesses professionally trained (such as civilian pilots, military 
personnel, and police officers), but also in many of the cases there were multiple witnesses to the 
event. Furthermore, it is extremely difficult to dismiss such professional reports when many of 
the events are supported by recently released government documents describing the same events. 
For most of these incidences there are government documents and they are referenced and 
included in Appendix I at the end of this briefing document. 


6.2 UFO Sightings Prior to the 1940s 


Although the modem age of UFO sightings is considered by many to have begun with the 
publicity surrounding pilot Kenneth Arnold’s June 25, 1947 sighting of nine saucer-like objects in 
Washington State, objects we now would call UFOs have been described throughout recorded 
history. Several events described in the bible and in ancient Vedic literature have been 
considered by scholars to be UFO descriptions. A recent Reader’s Digest book on “Mysteries of 
the Unexplained” reports descriptions of sightings from ancient Egypt, Roman writings, as well 
as writings from the Middle Ages both from Europe and Japan. Jim Marrs also describes some of 
these early sightings in his book. 40 Many of these reports have been reviewed numerous times by 
UFO writers and will not be dealt with here. For an excellent historical review of the UFO issues 
since WWII up to the mid 1980s, see Above Top Secret by Timothy Good. Since our 
government’s interest in UFOs and maintaining secrecy about them began in earnest in the 1940s, 
the best available evidence cases start there. 


6.3 1942 - 1945: The Present Era of UFO Sightings Begins 


Some of the earliest case histories come from military officers in the early 1940s. In 1942, a 
photographer had set up on a busy street in China. With his large camera, he hoped to take 
photographs of visitors, which they would purchase as a souvenir. Suddenly, his attention was 
drawn to the sky, along with many others on the street. There, hovering silently was a large, dark 
disc-shaped object. The quick-thinking photographer focused his camera on the disc and 
obtained an excellent, clear photo of it. A military officer serving in the Chinese campaign prior 
to World War II was present on the street as well. He bought the photograph and apparently 
tucked it into a scrapbook of photographs he collected while stationed in China. It went 
unnoticed for years until a Japanese gentleman discovered the old album containing the 1942 
photograph. 41 


In August of 1942, U.S. Marine Sergeant Stephen Brickner was stationed in the Solomon 
Islands. He witnessed the appearance of multiple unconventional, although loud, flying objects. 




40 Marrs, Jim. 1997. Alien Agenda, HarperCollins Publishers, NY, 434pp. 


41 "UFO Sightings: Photographic Evidence, Vol. #1", video, 8 1996 AFS/Dialogue Productions, producer, 
Thomas Tulien. Photograph owned by Wendelle Stevens, obtained from Paul Dong. 




374 






Sgt. Brickner wrote an account describing over 150 “wobbling” objects flying in a formation of 
straight lines of ten to twelve craft each. 42 


Foo Fighters: During World War II in the European and Pacific theaters, and in India, pilots 
and crewmembers began reporting unexplained glowing balls flying in formation beside their 
military aircraft 43 . Beginning in 1943, pilots flying over the Indian Ocean, Germany and 
elsewhere reported similar events, stating that the "balls of fire" raced across the sky at fantastic 
speeds. While it was suspected that the Nazis were flying some sort of missiles, rockets or 
electro-gravitic devices, intelligence efforts eventually surmised that the Nazis were also being 
tagged by these odd balls of light. Reportedly, an American pilot paraphrased a comic strip title 
from the day and stated “Where there’s foo, there’s fire.” 44 The term “foo fighters” was coined 
and stuck. 


American Air Force pilots and intelligence officers flying over Germany, and particularly the 
Rhine Valley, radioed to the American radar center instances of seeing dozens of red or orange 
lights, flares or possible Nazi night fighters, “kraut fighters” or “kraut balls.” The radar center, 
however, reported to the pilots that the radar screen showed the military plane to be alone in its 
airspace. Rather than being an isolated incident, the balls of light reappeared with increasing 
frequency throughout 1943 and 1944. 45 Indeed, in 1944, two P-47 pilots each observed a “foo 
fighter” in broad daylight. Flying near Neustadt, Germany, one pilot reported observing “a gold- 
colored ball with a metallic finish.” The second pilot, also flying near Neustadt, described “a 
phosphorescent golden sphere” with a diameter of three to five feet. 


In May of 1945, American soldier Fynn R. Momo described “a fireball of rather startling 
nature” over Ohrdorf, Germany: 


It was brighter than any star, or even the planet Venus. It passed completely from horizon to 


horizon in about two seconds. The path was through the zenith, so that whatever its altitude, 


its speed must have been enormous. 


Momo went on to state that the object was soundless and had a “rising and sinking” or 
bobbing motion as it traversed from horizon to horizon. Momo said it reminded him of the 
reflection from a mirror that, when held in the hand, causes the reflected light to bounce 
erratically with the slightest movement. “A similar device was employed in World War II to 
project images of religious scenes on the clouds to frighten superstitious enemy soldiers. It was 
quite successful until they caught on,” Momo reported. 46 


The late American journalist Fra nk Edwards cited a report by Major E.R.T. Holmes from 
England which summarized sightings by B-17 bomber pilots of the 384th Group during a 
bombing run on the Schweinfurt, Germany industrial complex on October 14, 1943. Major 
Holmes stated in his report that the discs caused no damage to the bombers. The official military 
report was signed as follows: 




42 Good, Timothy, Above Top Secret, William Morrow and Company, 1988, p.18 


43 For example: See pilot Leet’s letter to Major Keyhoe describing a ‘Foo Fighter” and the statement that it was 
thought to be a new German fighter. Appendix I. (Document Al. 3) 


44 Lore and Deneault, Mysteries of the Skies: UFOs in Perspective, Prentice-Hall, Inc. 1968, p. 116. 


45 UFO Encounters, Golden Press, 1978. 


46 Mysteries of the Skies, pp. 119-120. 




375 






Major E.R.T. Holmes, FLO, 1st Bombardment Squadron, to the Minister of Information 15, 
War Office, Whitehall, London, under date of October 24, 1943. (Mission No. 115 in the 
British records) 47 


Fra nk Edwards and others believed that an investigation into this phenomenon was initiated 
in Britain, although it was flatly denied by the British military. Further, no evidence for its 
existence, other than a few documents such as the Holmes report mentioned above, has been 
uncovered. The alleged report was known as the Massey Report, apparently named for a 
Lieutenant General Massey. But Air Marshal Sir Victor Goddard, the first Deputy Director of 
Air Intelligence to the Air Ministry in Britain, stated that there was no General Massey in the 
records of the British Army. However, a Hugh Massy was listed in the 1 945 Who ’s Who. 
Lieutenant General Hugh R. S. Massy was appointed eventually to the office of Deputy Chief of 
the Imperial General Staff. Was this Massy, who retired in 1942, the general who investigated 
the foo fighters? As with the nature and origin of these enigmatic flying objects, the report and 
its namesake remain a mystery to the present day. 48 


6.4 New Mexico Crash Retrieval and Landing Cases 


According to an article in the April 1 , 1 966 issue of Life magazine, between June 1 947 and 
early 1966, 10,147 UFO sightings had been reported. 49 The term "flying saucers" itself sprang 
from private pilot Kenneth Arnold’s experience on June 24, 1947 near Mount Rainier, 
Washington. He saw a formation of nine rapidly moving disc-shaped objects while flying in a 
small plane. In the wild publicity and wave of sightings that followed during the summer of 
1947, the term "flying saucers" was coined by the popular press. 


The Roswell Incident: On July 2, 1947, an object crashed into a remote field on rancher 
William "Mac" Brazel’s land. Mr. Brazel reported hearing a loud explosion during a severe 
thunderstorm. The next morning, he discovered debris scattered over an area which may have 
spanned fifty acres. Mr. Brazel notified the local sheriffs office who in turn called the Army. 
The case created a stir when the 509th Bomb Group at the Army Air Force Base at Roswell Field, 
New Mexico, officially released to the press the astounding story that a flying saucer had crashed 
near Roswell. The Public Information Officer at the base who released the story to the press was 
First Lieutenant Walter Haut, who still lives in Roswell. The Roswell Daily Record ran the story 
on the front page in bold headlines: "RAAF Captures Flying Saucer on Ranch in Roswell 
Region." Two days later, the Army recanted, issuing a second press release claiming that only a 
weather balloon had crashed. 


Major Jesse Marcel, a staff intelligence officer at Roswell Field, was assigned to the recovery 
operation. To bolster the “validity” of the second press release, a press conference was held in 
Fort Worth, Texas, where the debris was first taken, and a photograph of Major Marcel kneeling 
to examine remnants of a tom, silvery weather balloon was released. This balloon was eventually 
declared by the Air Force to be a "Mogul balloon" — balloons which carried top secret acoustical 
apparatus designed to “listen” for evidence of Soviet nuclear bomb testing. The Mogul was 
actually designed so that a string of much larger balloons kept it airborne. It bore little 
resemblance to a sole weather balloon. However, a major military retrieval effort resulted from 
this alleged “crash” of a balloon. Teams of Army personnel combed the site for days, clearing it 




47 Edwards, Frank, Flying Saucers— Here and Now!, Lyle Stuart, New York, 1967, p.77. 


48 Above Top Secret, p.28 


49 “The Week of the Flying Saucers” , Bill Wise, Life magazine , April 1, 1966, 1966 Time Inc. 




376 






not only of the wreckage (and, reportedly, the bodies of extraterrestrial life forms), but of every 
shred or scrap. The recovered debris was flown under deep cover first to Carswell Air Force 
Base in Fort Worth, Texas and ultimately to Wright Field (now Wright-Patterson Air Force Base) 
in Ohio. It is difficult to imagine any sort of balloon configuration spreading debris over a fifty- 
acre area, or requiring a top-secret operation to retrieve the pieces. 


During the early phase of the retrieval operation, Major Marcel showed some pieces of the 
debris to his family, admonishing them never to discuss it. The late Major Marcel’s son, Col. 
Jesse Marcel, Jr., M.D., is a witness who is part of Disclosure Project. Dr. Marcel clearly 
remembers his father calling the family around the kitchen table that night. Dr. Marcel, then 
twelve years old, was shown items from the crash site, particularly small beams of lightweight 
material, lavender to purple in color, with hieroglyphic-like markings along its length. Dr. 
Marcel had a model made to his specifications from his vivid recollections as a 12-year old boy 
when he held and examined the material. 


Another witness who was on President Eisenhower’s staff recounts being shown two sections 
of the small I-beams and a piece of foil-like material when he was in cryptography training in a 
basement office in the Pentagon in 1 960-6 1 . He was told that the material “came from the crash 
of a UFO;” he was not told from where and was not allowed to handle the material. He recalls 
being told that the metal foil could not be pierced, cut or burned. Our witness also clearly recalls 
hieroglyphic markings along the length of one of the small beams. 50 


Roswell dwelled in the realm of rumor until 1978 when the late Major Jesse Marcel appeared 
on an NBC radio program and talked about the official debris retrieval at the crash site near 
Roswell. Major Marcel stated the following in an interview by nuclear physicist and UFO 
researcher Stanton Friedman: 


“... that afternoon, we loaded everything into a B-29 on orders from Colonel Blanchard and 
flew it all to Ft. Worth. I was scheduled to fly it all the way to Wright Field in Ohio, but when we 
got to Carswell at Ft. Worth, the general nixed it. He took control at this point, and ordered me 
not to talk to the press under any circumstances. I was pulled off the flight and someone else was 
assigned to fly the stuff up to Wright Field...” 51 


Why Roswell? Quite simply, because the 509th was the only military facility in the country, 
and most likely in the world, holding nuclear warheads. 


Other Crash Sites: Whether the Roswell crash actually occurred near Roswell, or at another 
location in New Mexico, particularly Magdalena or Socorro (the Plains of San Agustin), Corona, 
or Aztec, remains in dispute, and whether there was only one or more than one crash of a possible 
extraterrestrial spacecraft in New Mexico has yet to be proven. In 1997, some of the best-known 
investigators of the Roswell crash reversed their opinions and claimed they no longer believed an 
extraterrestrial spacecraft crashed in Roswell but rather it was either a balloon-tethered device or 
a highly classified atomic -powered military prototype craft. However, witness testimony as 
outlined above, as well as statements given to the Disclosure Project by other former military 
witnesses, confirm that there were several crashes in the southwestern United States in the late 
1940s and 1950s. These witnesses and evidence uncovered over the years by several UFO 
researchers point to crashes of extraterrestrial space craft at these sites, along with Roswell: in or 




50 Disclosure Project transcripts of closed witness meetings; June 1995 and April 1997. 


51 Berlitz and Moore, The Roswell Incident. Granada, London 1980. 




377 






near Aztec, New Mexico; Kingman, Arizona; the Great Sand Dunes of Colorado, inside the 
Mexican border near Laredo, Texas; and Paradise Valley (near what is now Carefree), Arizona. 
There is also a report by researchers Tommy Blann and Leonard Stringfield of a crash in 
Northern New Mexico in 1962. This pair of researchers also reported on a UFO on the ground at 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base the same year, 1962, under heavy guard in a hangar. 52 


Regardless of the precise location of any of possible crashes, there is a significant body of 
evidence, including documents obtained from the U.S. government through the Freedom of 
Information Act ("FOIA") which clearly indicate that secret retrieval operations occurred. It 
stretches the credulity to imagine that such closely-guarded operations would be necessary for a 
weather balloon, if we are to believe the second press release out of Roswell in July of 1947. 


But an effort to obtain those documents spearheaded by Rep. Steven Schiff (R-NM) 
culminated in a disappointing dead end. Rep. Schiff sent requests through the GAO (Government 
Accounting Office) for any and all documentation regarding the crash of an airborne object in 
New Mexico in 1947. The GAO representatives performed a search and were unable to provide 
Rep. Schiff with any documentation. 


However, other requests through the CIA and FOIA produced a memorandum dated March 
22, 1950 from the Director of the FBI stating that three flying saucers had been recovered in New 
Mexico (REF TO LETTER). Also two memoranda from October and November of 1947 state 
that a study was underway at Wright Field of flying saucers recently sighted over the United 
States, and that models were being constructed to be tested in a wind tunnel. 


The New Mexico crash investigations have yielded persistent stories of extraterrestrial 
biological entities ("EBEs") who perished in or shortly after the crashes and whose bodies have 
been shuttled from one secret military base to another since the late 1940s. When we add into the 
equation the testimony of multiple living witnesses, or whose close family members confessed on 
their death beds, that small nonhuman life forms were found at the crash sites, one or more of 
which may have been still alive at the time they were found, we have at minimum cases which 
cry for thorough scientific investigation with all of the documents released for review. 


The Socorro Landing Case - 1964: Lonnie Zamora, a police sergeant in Socorro, New 
Mexico, reported the sighting of a UFO on the ground — complete with landing traces and small 
humanoid life forms. The incident occurred on April 24, 1964 and was the subject of official 
investigations by the Air Force, the FBI, and private investigations by other researchers, among 
them Dr. J. Allen Hynek. This incident is the first reported in the official Air Force UFO records 
involving landing traces and the sighting of humanoid life forms. 53 


During daylight hours while on duty that day, Sgt. Zamora was in hot pursuit of a black 
Chevrolet which he first saw speeding past the Socorro courthouse. He pursued the vehicle north 
along US Highway 85 outside of town. He was suddenly distracted by what he thought was the 
roar of an explosion. Seeing blue-orange flames, he gave up the car chase for this greater 
emergency and headed towards a dynamite shack he knew to be in the area. Driving was difficult 
on the steep gravel and dirt road. He approached the area where he’d seen the flames, reached the 
crest and slowly drove westward. A shiny object came into sight about 150-200 yards off the 




52 Stringfield, Leonard H., UFO Status Reports II and III, 1982. 


53 Emenegger, Robert, UFO's Past, Present & Future. Ballentine, New York, 1974. 




378 






road Zamora initially thought he was looking at a car overturned into a gully. He saw two small 
humanoid occupants, reportedly dressed in white overalls. 


At about 4:45 pm, Sgt. Zamora radioed to headquarters and reported a possible automobile 
crash, stating his intent to be outside of his patrol car investigating. Zamora stated that he drove 
up the road to a vantage point where he could see into the gully. Zamora reported: 


As I approached the scene, I thought it was an overturned car— on end, sort of. As I 
finally got a look at it, it was a shiny-type object. The object was like aluminum— it was 
whitish against a moss background, but no chrome. Seemed like a football shape like this. I 
saw two pair of overalls. 54 


Zamora went on to relate that one of the people turned and noticed his car, seemingly startled. 
Zamora was approaching closer with the intent of offering help when quickly a loud roaring 
began. It started at a low frequency, rising to a high and very loud frequency, accompanied by a 
flame. Sgt. Zamora hurried back to his patrol car, hitting his leg on the fender and knocking off 
his glasses. The roaring object rose into the air and moved away from him. Zamora was quite 
frightened. He flung his arm across his face but turned to look at the object. "I heard a whine, 
then total silence," Zamora reported. He quickly radioed back to police headquarters, almost 
hysterical. A fellow officer, Sgt. Chavez, soon arrived at the scene. He stated: 


When I arrived, Zamora was sweating and white. ..very pale. I went down to where the 
object had been. I noticed the brush was burning in several places. I could see the tracks on 
the ground. The object had left four perpendicular impressions in the ground. I noticed 
smoldering bushes, but they felt cold to the touch. 1 knew Lonnie had seen something— the 
proof was right there. Before I arrived, he had made a sketch of an insignia he saw on the 
side of the object. I secured the area and called the local military authorities. 55 


Soon the area was swarming with spectators, reporters, an FBI agent and several others. 
Astrophysicist Dr. J. Allen Hynek flew in to investigate immediately. He in fact returned for two 
more visits to the site and interviews with local residents and Zamora, in whom he expressed 
belief. The FBI chief investigator on the case, Captain Hector Quintanilla, stated that soil and 
vegetation samples were obtained and tested at Wright-Patterson, measurements were taken and a 
thorough investigation was conducted. Yet the case was lost in red tape and no official 
determination was ever made. Several secret military test vehicles were mentioned by the press 
as possible explanations, all of which remained inconclusive. Sgt. Zamora was subjected to 
ridicule and finger-pointing which led him to leave the law enforcement profession and avoid 
discussion of the incident. 


The sheer number of reports from credible civilian, law enforcement and military witnesses 
from New Mexico cry for a serious scientific investigation and a release of all evidence and 
material collected therein. 


6.5 Military Aircraft Encounter - 1951 


On February 9, 1951, United States Navy Flight 125 departed from Keflavik, Iceland en route 
to the Naval Air Station in Argentia, Newfoundland. The co-pilot was U.S. Naval Reserve 
Lieutenant Graham E. Bethune, a Disclosure Project witness who served 26 years on active duty. 




Ibid,/?. 64 . 
Ibid,/?. 65 . 




379 






Lt. Bethune, who was stationed in Maryland at the time, was one of three officers suggested to fly 
to Keflavik for a classified meeting between Lockheed and the Icelandic government. The 
Icelanders had asked for American troops to protect them, stating they had been seeing 
unidentified craft off the coasts of Iceland. Lt. Bethune assumed they were observing classified, 
experimental craft. However, his opinion changed while on board Navy Flight 125. 


Just after midnight, at 0055 on February 10, 1951, Lt. Bethune and his crew had an encounter 
with an unknown object. The following report is in Lt. Bethune’s own words: 


I was the pilot from Iceland to Newfoundland. 240 miles out I saw something on the water 
40 miles away. Moonset had occurred an hour previous. Nothing was scheduled to be in 
that area. I called it to attention of my navigator and co-pilot. It looked like a city in the 
distance. There was a pattern to the lights on the water — an odd pattern. I thought it was a 
classified rescue mission. 20 miles out, the lights went out. A yellow halo appeared on the 
water. It flew towards us, some 20 miles, at approximately 1,000 miles per hour. It stopped 
200 ft below us. I observed a faint dome shape to it. I had a knowing that it was intelligently 
controlled — it came over to look at us. The object stayed about five miles away, at about a 
45N an angle. It flew with us, looking at us. I estimated its size at 300 feet in diameter. My 
plane had no guns. The on-board magnetic compass did spin. We had 31 passengers on 
board, including a Navy commander [and] a psychiatrist. I went back and spoke to the 
psychiatrist and asked him if he had observed anything unusual. The commander said he saw 
what we saw. The psychiatrist said, “Yes, it was a flying saucer and I didn’t look at it 
because such things don’t exist.” 


I told my crew not to report it. But it was picked up on Gander radar. We were 
interrogated in Iceland. It was obvious from the questions and demeanor of the US Navy 
men who debriefed us that they’d seen things out there before. A report on this event was 
kept at Wright-Patterson AFB. I found it in 1991, in the archives. I have the report, along 
with letters from NICAP, Keyhoe’s report to congress, and photos of the plane I was in. All 
five pilots described it the UFO the same — its size; the aura around it. A lieutenant who 
was on duty the night we were interrogated was told they tracked it by radar in excess of 
1,800 mph. No radar report was included in the 17-page report — it was missing from the 
report when I finally found the report in 1991. Radar was confirmed at the time. I estimated 
the speed of the object at 1,000 mph. The other pilots estimated 1,000 - 1,500 mph. The 
fastest fighter we had at time could go 500 mph. There were no jets at the time — in 
February 1951. 


This object was not a shooting star. It was always between the plane and the water. We 
had extensive recognition training then. We didn’t have the instrumentation assists that we 
have today. We navigated by stars. We had about a 54th of a second to identify something 
while we were flying in a moving plane. We are the ones who gave the information to the 
astrophysicists since we were the ones up there. We had many sightings but this is the one 
that we have documentation for. 56 


Upon landing in Argentia, Newfoundland, Lt. Bethune and his crew were interrogated by 
Naval officers about the incident. In Lt. Bethune’s official, confidential report filed at the Fleet 
Logistic Air Wing, Atlantic/Continental, Air Transport Squadron One, U.S. Naval Air Station, 
Patuxent River, Maryland, dated February 10, 1951, he gave additional details: The object was 




56 Taped transcript from closed Disclosure Project witnesses' meeting, April 9, 1997, Washington, D.C. 




380 






first seen when the aircraft was at least 250 miles off the coast of Iceland. Bethune and the co- 
pilot kept the object under observance for four to five minutes before calling it to the attention of 
the rest of the crew. When the object lifted and rushed towards them at an estimated 1,000 miles 
per hour, Lt. Bethune’s first feeling was that the Navy plane would collide with the UFO in mid- 
air. When it approached the plane, its shape was clearly discemable to be that of a disc, at least 
300 feet in diameter. Its color changed from yellow to reddish-orange. When it reversed course 
and flew away from the aircraft to vanish over the horizon, its speed tripled. 57 


The other members of the Flight 125 crew submitted written reports as well. Lt. Fred W. 
Kingdon, serving as second Plane Commander, stated, "I was an eye witness to an unusual 
sighting of an unidentified object." Lt. Kingdon was in the right-hand seat (co-pilot) while Lt. 
Bethune was in the left-hand seat. When the UFO rose from the surface of the water and sped 
towards the plane, Lt. Kingdon described it as "very large and was circular with a glowing 
yellow-orange ring around its outer edge." Although the object was very close, it was difficult to 
determine its exact speed and configuration since it was observed over water at night. "However, 
the speed was tremendous and the size was at least 200 to 300 feet in diameter. The object was 
close enough to me to see and observe it clearly," Kingdon reported 58 . 


Plane Commander LTJG A. L. Jones was in the cabin of the plane when one of the navigators 
came aft and pointed to the object. He stated: 


I watched it for a minute and went forward to the cockpit to get a better view. Upon reaching 
the cockpit, I took the plane off of the autopilot and turned to a true heading of 290N in 
pursuit of the object. The object left on a heading of about 290N true and went over the 
horizon in a very short time. I would guess the speed to be well over 1500 miles per hour, 
and the diameter to be at least 300 feet. My first view of it resembled a huge fiery orange 
disc on its edge.. .When it went over the horizon, it seemed to go from a vertical position to a 
horizontal position, with only the trailing edge showing in a half- moon effect. 59 


The plane’s navigator, Lt. Noel J. P. Koger, remarked in his report: 


Lieutenant Kingdon pointed out an orange colored object about 060° relative, or 290° 
true, saying it appeared like a small village or a ship. Due to our position, I was certain it 
wasn’t a village. I had been looking at the object about thirty seconds, which it appeared to 
me was another demonstration of the ‘northern lights’ phenomenon... when the object 
suddenly started getting much brighter, taking on shape and coming in our direction at a great 
rate of speed... The best view I had of the object showed it to be a circular, bright orange-red 
disc, which was approaching us at a very great, undeterminable speed. 60 


The Air Intelligence Information Report 61 prepared for this encounter summarizes the 
observances of the crew members, stating that Lt. Bethune was the first to see the object. The 
report states that all five crew members were experienced North Atlantic fliers and that all five 
observers agreed on the facts as stated. 




57 Commander Bethune’s original Memorandum Report U.S. Navy, 10 February 1951, Appendix I. (Documents 
A1.4) 


58 Memorandum Report of F.W. Kingdon, Jr., LT, U.S. Navy, 10 February’ 1951 in Appendix I. (Documents A1 .4) 


59 Memorandum Report of A. L. Jones, LTJG, U.S. Navy, 10 February 1951 in Appendix I. (Documents A1 .4) 


60 Memorandum Report of Noel J. P. Koger, Lt. U.S. Navy’, 10 February 1951 in Appendix 1. (Documents Al. 4). 


61 See Air Intelligence Information Report in Appendix 1. (Documents A1.4) 




381 






For additional details, please see the official government documents regarding this incident, 
which the Disclosure Project obtained through a FOIA request. These are found in Appendix I 
(Document A 1.4). 


6.6 The Summer of 1952: UFOs Over Many Areas Including Washington, D.C. 


One of the most frequent rhetorical questions posed about UFOs is: if they are real, why 
don’t they just land on the White Flouse lawn? Actually, they came pretty close to doing just that 
on two consecutive weekends in July of 1952. 


The summer of 1952 was one of the most prolific for reported sightings of UFOs. There had 
been a significant number of reports flowing in all along the Eastern seaboard and from the 
Midwestern states for weeks. Intelligence officers grew increasingly more uneasy over the shaip 
rise in sightings. Of special concern was that many of these statements were coming from 
civilians. Prior to that fateful summer, most sightings had come from military personnel and had 
been kept from the public. But now the citizens themselves, including commercial airline pilots 
had become sources of information: 


July 10, 1962: A National Airlines plane over Quantico, Virginia observed a light at 2,000 
feet which the crew stated was too slow to be a big meteor and too fast to be a lighted balloon. 


July 12, 1952: Former Air Force jet pilot Jack Green in Delphi, Indiana was one of many 
who witnessed a blue-white saucer-shaped object high in the sky. 


July 13, 1952: Thousands of people in Indianapolis witness a huge oval speed over the city at 
5,000 feet, frightening many. An Eastern Air Lines captain, an Air Force pilot, and a private pilot 
all saw a controlled craft initially flying much higher which descended to about 5,000 feet and 
flew over the city of Indianapolis. This was the first low-range sighting witnessed by thousands 
of people, at least in the era of UFO sightings that began in the 40s. Just prior to its appearance 
over Indiana, possibly the same object - certainly one bearing the same description - was seen on 
Air Force radar at Kirksville, Missouri. It was estimated to be flying at 1,700 mph and to be the 
size of a B-36 bomber. 


July 13, 1962: A commercial pilot and crew, flying at 11,000 feet sixty miles southwest of 
Washington, spotted a light below them. The light rose to the same altitude as the plane, hovered 
to the left of the plane for several minutes, then rose rapidly when the pilot turned on the plane’s 
landing lights. 


July 14, 1952: A PanAm flight headed south to Miami from New York reported observing 
glowing orange UFOs near Newport News, Virginia. {Note: The first formation consisted of six 
discs were seen; two more were seen soon after the first formation flew off.) As the formation 
approached the plane, the lead disc turned on its edge. The others instantly did the same. All the 
discs flipped to horizontal, changed direction and sped off. 


July 17, 1952: An American Airlines flight near Denver received a radio transmission 
warning of a craft ahead. Captain Paul Carpenter and crew observed four saucers in formation 
flying at an estimated 3,000 mph. 


From the ground: 


July 16, 1952: Langley Air Force Base was the scene for a sighting of two large amber 
lights. One of the two observers was a well-respected civilian scientist from Langley. The lights 




382 






made a 180N degree turn, returned to where they were first spotted, jockeyed with each other, 
were joined by a third light, started climbing and when doing so, were joined by several other 
lights - all flying in formation. It is estimated that the entire event lasted three minutes. 


UFOs Buzz the White House: At 11:40 pm on July 19, 1952, dual radar stations at 
Washington National Airport picked up seven objects east and south of Andrews Air Force Base. 
Andrews also picked up the targets on their radar. Conventional aircraft were quickly ruled out 
as the cause; these targets would fly at 100-130 mph, suddenly accelerate to extremely high 
speeds and leave the area. One object was clocked at 7,200 miles per hour. Reportedly, the 
objects appeared in every sector of the radarscopes, including flying through restricted air space 
over the White House and Capitol building. The objects returned several times throughout the 
night and were also seen by airline pilots (at midnight and 2:00 a.m.), air traffic control tower 
operators, and jet fighter pilots who were dispatched from Andrews. 


Edward Ruppelt wrote: 


But the clincher came in the wee hours of the morning, when an ARTC traffic controller 
called the control tower at Andrews AFB and told the tower operators that ARTC had a target 
just south of their tower, directly over the Andrews Radio range station. The tower operators 
looked and there was a ‘huge fiery-orange sphere’ hovering in the sky directly over their 
range station. 62 


Apparently, Air Force Intelligence was not informed about the events until they, along with 
everyone else in the area, read the newspaper headlines the next morning: INTERCEPTORS 
CHASE FLYING SAUCERS OVER WASHINGTON, D.C, Even a major at the Pentagon stated 
to Project Blue Book investigator Edward Ruppelt that all he knew about the events was what 
he’d read in the newspaper. A full investigation ensued immediately under the supervision of 
said major — Dewey Foumet. The air traffic controllers at Washington National told intelligence 
officers that the targets they observed were caused by radar waves bouncing off a hard, solid 
object — these were not temperature inversions. The radar operator Air Forceman at Andrews 
and the two veteran airline pilots concurred. 


Second Washington Flap: Serendipitously, the second wave of sightings over Washington 
occurred seven days later, nearly to the hour. Those seven intervening days had been far from 
quiet; UFO reports were flowing into Wright Field in Dayton, Ohio at the rate of thirty to forty 
per day — triple the previous numbers. Edward Ruppelt claims that "many were as good, if not 
better, than the Washington incident." The most outstandingly unexplained of those reports 
included amber-red lights observed over the Guided Missile Long-Range Proving Ground at 
Patrick Air Force Base, Florida; a rapidly moving large, round, silver spinning object in Uvalde, 
Texas; and military jets unsuccessfully chasing UFOs over Los Alamos, New Mexico; 
Massachusetts (two events), and New Jersey. 


A stunning prelude was the forerunner to the second wave over Washington. In the early 
evening of July 26, a saucer-shaped vehicle flashing red light wi nk ed in over the Naval Air 
Station in Key West, Florida, reportedly seen by hundreds. The events then speed up the Eastern 
Seaboard, focusing again on the nation’s capitol. There, beginning around 9:00 p.m., Washington 
area radar operators were once more picking up ‘bogies’ similar to the previous weekend’s 
mayhem. Within an hour, four or five UFOs at once were a continuous presence on the radar 




The Report on Unidentified Flying Saucers, Ruppelt, Edward J., Doubleday & Company, New York, 1956. 




383 






screens. Military jets were dispatched and commercial airlines were rerouted. According to 
Ruppelt, the press who had gathered at the control tower at Washington National were asked to 
leave. He wrote: 


When 1 later found out that the press had been dismissed on the grounds that the 
procedures used in an intercept were classified, I knew that this was absurd because any ham 
radio operator worth his salt could build equipment and listen in on any intercept. The real 
reason for the press dismissal, I learned, was not that a few people in the radar room were 
positive that this night would be the big night in UFO history— the night when a pilot would 
close in on and get a good look at a UFO— and they didn’t want the press to be in on it. 63 


However, the extraterrestrial UFO pilots had other ideas. As soon as the F-94 jets were 
airborne, around midnight, the UFOs all vanished from the radar scopes. The pilots could make 
no visual contact despite good visibility and weather. However, it was later learned that Langley 
AFB and civilians in the area had visuals on colored, rotating lights in the sky. But — surprise! 
— as soon as the military jets left the area, the UFOs popped back up on the Washington radar 
screens once more. One F-94 pilot who did see a light and was vectored to it by air traffic control 
reported that it went out as soon as he got near, "like somebody turning off a lightbulb." Brief 
radar lock-ons were obtained by the pilot. 64 


The UFOs continued to play games with the F-94s, staying put while they approached, then 
speeding away or vanishing. The UFOs played "catch me if you can" until the jets had nearly 
depleted their fuel, which coincided with the approaching sunrise. Once it got light, the UFOs 
had gone for good. Once more, the radar operators confirmed that they believed the targets were 
caused by solid, metallic, moving objects and were not due to any weather aberrations. And, once 
more, newspaper headlines were devoted to the UFOs. In the Pentagon, it was mass confusion, 
bolstered by the fact that new UFO reports were flowing in which verified visual sightings in the 
same areas where the radar targets had been located. This did little to support the Pentagon’s 
working hypothesis that freakish weather conditions had caused the radar bogies. And, prior to 
the Washington flap, very few reports indicated both radar and visual lock-on. 


By now, there was tremendous pressure to tell the public something. Rather lame excuses by 
the military did nothing to stem the tide of outcry flowing into the Pentagon, additionally fueled 
by more significant sighting reports coming in from coast to coast and by the creeping suspicion 
that the Russians were perhaps involved. According to researcher Donald Keyhoe, Director of Air 
Force Intelligence, Major General John A. Sam ford grappled with several false explanations 
which the Pentagon hoped would dowse the escalating agitation of John and Jane Q. Public. 
Calmly and glibly explaining the saucers away as various quirky natural phenomena, while 
admitting that "twenty percent" of the cases remained unsolved, the General went on to state that 
no pattern had remotely been revealed that indicated any threat or menace to the United States. 
The spin to debunk the existence of extraterrestrial spacecraft and visitors was printed by 
newspapers all over the country. According to Donald Keyhoe, just as the presses were rolling 
out this yarn, the Air Force had jets chasing saucers over the Midwestern states. Keyhoe stated, 
"[Ojne case, if it had been made public that night, would have ruined the inversion answer and 
wrecked the debunking plan. But I didn’t learn this until weeks later." 65 Yet, the denial —and 
ridicule— of all UFO cases continues to the present day. 




Ibid, p. 164. 


64 Flying Saucers from Outer Space . Keyhoe, Major Donald E., Henry’ Holt and Company, New York, 1953. 


65 Ibid, p.88 




384 






Within the Disclosure Project is a living military - Air Force - witness to the overflights of 
our nation’s Capitol. And the Disclosure Project’s Best Available Evidence briefing video (from 
1997), for educational, noncommercial purposes, contains a color photograph of a formation of 
UFOs flying low directly over the White Flouse. 


6.7 Air Command Base Overflights 


While 1975 is considered the "banner year" for unidentified flying objects appearing over 
Strategic Air Command bases, significant incidents occurred much earlier. A Disclosure Project 
witness supplied the following report: 


I am 49 years old, a college graduate, a disabled vet, and served in the United States Air 
Force from 1964 to 1974. In 1967, I had two direct observations of foreign technology and 
heard of at least two related incidents. 


The first direct observation of ETV ("extraterrestrial vehicle") occurred November 1967 
en route to a Minuteman I site for repairs at 2200 hours in North Dakota (Minot AFB). There 
were three staff in our vehicle, two Ballistic Missile Analysts, myself and my assistant, an 
armed security policeman. The guard made a comment to the effect that it was "awfully quiet 
out here." I decided to check the four channels on our radio when we heard, "I am going to 
shoot at it, sir. It’s about 300 feet above the site!" 


We immediately went into a duress condition, which calls for all personnel to respond to 
the assistance of the crew under duress. The entire episode took maybe 2-3 minutes. We 
were able to hear the Launch Control Combat Crew Commander ordering the two security 
guards at a nearby site to NOT shoot at the ETV. We headed in the direction of the site and 
observed a large, bright object with blinking red/green/blue lights at about 10-12 miles. The 
object began to rise as radio transmissions were flying back and forth. It rose and accelerated 
straight up at extremely high speed and disappeared as F-102’s and/or F-106 interceptors flew 
overhead. 


The two security guards were guarding the site (sites are unmanned) due to security 
systems failure and were awaiting a maintenance team to repair. This could take up to 3-4 
days depending if it was a weekend. At the height of the incident, up to six other security 
police were at or near the site in three vehicles (strike teams) in response to the duress codes. 


One of the guards (the one that was going to shoot at the ETV) went on a maintenance 
trip later that week with my crew and after prodding from me for 30-40 minutes gave me 
details of their ordeal and their debriefing. The two guards were debriefed by Dr. J. Allen 
Hynek and other staff not from Minot AFB. Dr. Hynek made the comment "this craft has 
been observed before." According to the guard, he and his team member were ordered by a 
USAF colonel to not discuss what had happened or they would be sent to Viet Nam 
immediately. They were both scared to death. 


The second incident occurred several weeks later when, while light snow was falling and 
a low ceiling was observed by me shortly before nightfall, a guard made a comment about the 
"strange moon" in the sky. 


Directly overhead of where we were repairing a Minuteman site was a moon-sized object, 
same color as the moon BELOW the cloud cover. I immediately called the Launch Control 
Facility (LFC) 8-10 miles away to report the “Moon.” The security staff said they had the 




385 






object under observation and had reported it to the Wing Security Control (WSC) at Minot 


Air Force Base. 


As I watched the object and talked to the LCF, the object slowly retreated through the 


clouds and disappeared. I have info on several other incidents — two credible — at Minot 


AFB, North Dakota and others at Duluth AFB, Minnesota. 66 


The 1970s 


Malmstrom Air Force Base, Montana 


The Senior Director of the 24th NORAD Region, Col. Terrence C. James, submitted a written 
report 67 of multiple overflights of Malmstrom AFB on multiple dates in November 1975, from 
which we quote: 


7 Nov 75 (1035Z) 68 - Received a call from the 341st Strategic Air Command Post (SAC 
CP), saying that the following missile locations reported seeing a large red to orange to 
yellow object: M-l, L-3, LIMA and L-6. The general object location would be 10 miles 
south of Moore, Montana, and 20 miles east of Buffalo, Montana. Commander and Deputy 
for Operations (DO) informed. 


7 Nov 75 (1203Z) - SAC advised that the LCF at Flarlowton, Montana, observed an object 
which emitted a light which illuminated the site driveway. 


7 Nov 75 (1319Z) - SAC advised K-l says very bright object to their east is now southeast of 
them and they are looking at it with 10x50 binoculars. Object seems to have lights (several) 
on it, but no distinct pattern. The orange/ gold object overhead also has small lights on it. 
SAC also advises female civilian reports having seen an object bearing south from her 
position six miles west of Lewistown. 


7 Nov 75 (1327Z) - L-l reports that the object to their northeast seems to be issuing a black 
object from it, tubular in shape. In all of this time, suiweillance has not been able to detect 
any sort of track except for known traffic, (emphasis added) 


7 Nov 75 (1355Z) - K-l and L-l report that as the sun rises, so do the objects they have visual. 


7 Nov 75 (1429Z) - From SAC CP: As the sun rose, the UFOs disappeared. Commander and 
DO notified. 


8 Nov 75 (0635Z) - A security camper team at K-4 reported UFO with white lights, one red 
light 50 yards behind white light. Personnel at K-l seeing same object. 


8 Nov 75 (0753Z) - J330 unknown 0753. Stationary/seven knots/12,000. One (varies seven 
objects). None, no possibility, EKLB 3746, two F-106, GTF, SCR 0754. NCOC notified. 


[Note that fighter jets were scrambled to intercept - ed.J 




66 Private correspondence to Steven M. Greer, M.D. and author, February’ 1997. 


67 See original report in Appendix I. (Document A 1.5) 
rt,s Refers to time of sighting in Zulu (military’) time. 




386 






8 Nov 75 (0820Z) - Lost radar contact, fighters broken off at 0825, looking in area of J331 
(another height finder contact). 


[Note that fighters did have radar contact with the UFOs.] 


8 Nov 75 (0905Z) - From SAC CP: L-sites had fighters and objects; fighters did not get down to 
objects. 


[Note: L-sites are Minuteman ICBM missile launch sites.] 


8 Nov 75 (0915Z) - From SAC CP: From four different points: Observed objects and fighters; 
when fighters arrived in the area, the lights went out; when fighters departed, the lights 
came back on; to NCOC. 


8 Nov 75 (0953Z) - From SAC CP: L-5 reported object increased in speed - high velocity, raised 
in altitude and now cannot tell the object from the stars. To NCOC. 


8 Nov 75 (0305Z) - SAC CP called and advised SAC crews at Sites L-l, L-6 and M-l observing 


UFO. Object yellowish bright round light 20 miles north of Flarlowton, 2 to 4,000 feet. 


9 Nov 75 (0320Z) - SAC CP reports UFO 20 miles southeast of Lewiston, orange white disc 


object. 24th NORAD Region surveillance checking area. Surveillance unable to get height 
check. 


9 Nov 75 (0320Z) - FAA Watch Supervisor reported he had five air carriers vicinity of UFO, 
United Flight 157 reported seeing meteor, "arc welder’s blue" in color. SAC CP advised, 
sites still report seeing object stationary. 


9 Nov 75 (0348Z) - SAC CP confirms L-l, sees object, a mobile security team has been directed 
to get closer and report. 


9 Nov 75 (0629Z) - SAC CP advises UFO sighting reported around 0305Z. Cancelled the flight 


security team from Site L-l, checked area and all secure, no more sightings. 


10 Nov 75 (0125Z) - Received a call from SAC CP. Report UFO sighting from site K-l around 


Flarlowton area. Surveillance checking area with height finder. 


10 Nov 75 (0153Z) - Surveillance report unable to locate track that would correlate with UFO 
sighted by K- 1 . 


10 Nov 75 (1 125Z) - UFO sighting reported by Minot Air Force Station, a bright star-like object 
in the west, moving east, about the size of a car. First seen approximately 1015Z. 
Approximately 1120Z, the object passed over the radar station, 1,000 feet to 2,000 feet 
high, no noise heard. Three people from the site or local area saw the object. NCOC 
notified, [emphasis added] 


12 Nov 75 (0230Z) - UFO reported from K-1. They say the object is over Big Snowy Mountain 
with a red light on it at high altitude. Attempting to get radar on it from Opheim. Opheim 
searching from 120° to 140°. 




387 






12 Nov 75 (0248Z) - Second UFO in same area reported. Appeared to be sending a beam of light 
to the ground intermittently. At 0250Z object disappeared, [emphasis added] 


12 Nov 75 (025 1Z) - Reported that both objects have disappeared. Never had any joy (contact) 
on radar. 


Note: After a week’s time, another incident was reported. 


19 Nov 75 (13272Z) - SAC command post report UFO obsen’ed by FSC & a cook, observed object 
traveling NE between M-8 and M-l at a fast rate of speed. Object bright white light seen 45 
to 50 sec following terrain 200 ft off ground. The light was two to three times brighter than 
landing light on a jet. 




Extracts from a NORAD Command Director’s Log 69 from the fall of 1975 (see attached) 


chronicles a long list of sightings at a number of other SAC and Air Force bases: 


29 Oct 75 - An “u nk nown helicopter” landed in the munitions storage area at Loring Air Force 
Base in Maine two nights in a row. There is mention of an unconfirmed report of Canadian 
air bases being overflown by a “helicopter.” Loring AFB turned in another report of a 
‘probable helicopter overflight’ on November 1 as well. 


31 Oct 75 - Wurtsmith Air Force Base (Michigan) reported a “helicopter” hovering over a SAC 
weapons storage area. A tanker plane had visual lock-on and radar “skin paint” and was able 
to track the object over Lake Huron. 


8 Nov 75 - This entry details the first of the “u nk nowns” flying above Malstrom AFB and vicinity 
in Montana, stating that pilots had visual and radar lock-ons. The UFOs eluded the fighter 
jets by turning off their lights when the jets were bearing towards them, then turning them 
back on when the F-106’s left. 


10 Nov 75 - A bright, silent object the size of an automobile buzzed Minot Air Force Base in 
North Dakota. 


12 - 25 Nov 75 - Civilians call in reports from Minnesota, Virginia, Ontario and Mendicino 
County, California of many diverse types of UFOs, including cigar-shaped craft, diamond- 
shaped objects, cup in a bowl-shaped, rotating lights, balls of light, ovals with blinking lights, 
and fireballs. 


By the mid 1980’s (date estimated) the Directory > of Databases described the NORAD 
Unknown Tracking System 70 , classified Secret, as containing 7,000 incidents of unknown 
traffic over or near North America since the database was started in 1971. 


New Mexico 


The National Military Command Center in Washington, D.C. issued a report 71 dated 21 


January 1976 with information from the Air Force Operations Center regarding an incident 


over Cannon Air Force Base in New Mexico: 


69 See original report in Appendix I. (Document Al. 6) 


70 See page describing the database in Appendix I. (Document Al. 7) 


71 See original report in Appendix I. (Document A 1.8) 




388 






Two UFOS are reported near the flight line at Cannon AFB, New Mexico. Security Police 
observing them reported the UFOs to be 25 yards in diameter, gold or silver in color with 
blue light on top, hole in the middle and red light on bottom. Air Force is checking with 
radar. Additionally, checking weather inversion data. 


Maryland 


The National Military Command Center issued another report 72 , dated 30 July 1976, detailing 
several reports of UFOs around Fort Ritchie, Maryland in the wee hours of July 30th. After 
civilians called in sightings reports, two separate military police patrols described observing three 
reddish, oblong cylinders hovering very low (100-200 feet) over an ammunitions storage site. 
Independently, an Army police sergeant reported seeing a UFO over the same site while he was 
driving to work approximately 50 minutes after the report by the two patrols. Interestingly, the 
final paragraph of this report attempted to explain away the sightings as moisture-saturated 
temperature inversions. 


Taken as a whole, the myriad of reports detailed here make an irrefutable case for United 
States military involvement in reporting UFOs. It is apparent from these reports, which are 
certainly not all-inclusive, that the U.S. military did indeed have an interest in UFOs and certainly 
investigated sightings well after the conclusion of Project Blue Book in 1969, which supposedly 
closed the door on the military’s interest in the subject of extraterrestrials and their space craft. 


6.8 Military Chase Over Iran - 1976 


The distinction for the best government documentation of a UFO event falls to the 
remarkable events that occurred in and above Tehran, Iran in September of 1976. The official 
U.S. government documents 73 following this narrative were distributed at the time of its writing 
by the Defense Attache at the United States Embassy in Tehran to the Defense Intelligence 
Agency, the White House, the CIA, the National Security Agency, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the 
Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of State. 74 


At half-past midnight on September 19, 1976, the Imperial Iranian Air Force received 
telephone calls from residents in the Shemiran area of Tehran. The citizens reported "strange 
objects in the sky," some calling them bird-like and others referring to them as lighted 
helicopters. The command post knew there were no airborne helicopters at the time and told the 
citizens they were seeing stars in the sky. The command post checked with Memrabad Tower. 
Then, looking for himself, observed a large, bright star-like object. At 1:30 a.m., an F-4 jet was 
scrambled from Shahrokhi Air Force Base and sent up to investigate. 


F-4s are Scrambled: The pilot reported that the object was so bright, it was easily visible 
from 70 miles away, which would place it approximately 40 miles north of Tehran. The IIAF 
pilot pursued the unusual craft. At 25 nautical miles from the unknown object, the pilot suddenly 
lost all UHF and intercom communications and instrumentation. When the pilot turned back 
towards Shahrokhi AFB, away from the UFO, he just as suddenly regained communication 




7 ~ See original report in Appendix I. (Document Al. 9) 


73 Note two versions of the report showing different degrees of censorship when the documents were released. 
Appendix I. (Documents A1.10) 


74 This event was later summarized in a confidential document by Captain H. Shields. Appendix I. (Document 
Al.ll) 




389 






capabilities. Due to the strangeness of the unfolding events, a second F-4 was dispatched. The 
backseat pilot obtained radar lock-on with the UFO at 27 nautical miles distance. When the F-4 
got within 25 miles of the object, the UFO increased its speed and moved away, pacing itself to 
maintain a sustained 25-mile distance from the jet. 


Colored Lights Observed on the UFO: The official government reports follow this 


narrative. Written by Col. Fra nk B. McKenzie, United States Air Force, it states that the F-4 
pilots compared the size of the object on radar to a 707 tanker, stating that a visual size estimate 
was difficult to the extreme brilliance of the UFO. Flowever, the pilots were able to describe 
flashing, rectangular strobe lights in blue, green, red and orange. The sequence of the strobing 
lights was so rapid that all four colors could be seen at once, according to the report. 


Objects Within Objects: The incident grew even more strange as it continued. As the F-4 
pursued the UFO south of Tehran, a second object ejected from the primary target. It was 
brilliantly lit and was estimated to be one-half to one-third the size of the moon. The second 
object zoomed towards the F-4. At this point, the F-4 pilot attempted to fire an AIM-9 missile at 
the UFO. Instantly, his weapons control panel lost all power, and communication capabilities 
were down once more. The pilot made an extreme evasive negative G dive to escape the UFO. 
As he did so, the UFO trailed the F-4 at an estimated distance of three to four nautical miles. As 
the pilot turned the jet, the secondary object appeared on the inside of his turn. It then returned to 
the primary UFO, rejoining perfectly with it. Almost immediately thereafter, another object 
ejected out the opposite side of the primary UFO. It fell towards the ground at a tremendous rate 
of speed. By now, the F-4’s communications and weapons systems were once again functioning 
normally. 


The UFO Lands: The F-4 crew watched the nose-diving UFO in anticipation of seeing a 
huge crash and explosion. Much to their astonishment, the UFO appeared to come to rest gently 
on the ground with no impact whatsoever. Moreover, it cast an extremely bright light extending 
over a two to three kilometer range (well over one mile). 


More Radio Interference: The Iranian F-4 began to descend, while the crew continued to 
observe the landed UFO and mark its location. It took several attempts before they could land the 
fighter jet. Each time they passed through a certain magnetic bearing, the aircraft lost 
communications and the on-board instrumentation fluctuated dramatically. Moreover, a civilian 
aircraft in the vicinity also reported communication failure but reported no visual contact with the 
UFO. During the F-4’s final approach into Shahrokhi, the IIAF crew observed another object - 
this one cylindrical with bright steady lights on either end and a flashing light in the center. The 
control tower reported no other known air traffic in the area. The tower was able to get a visual 
lock-on when the pilots told them in which area to look as the cylinder-like UFO passed over the 
F-4. 




Follow-up Investigation: The following day, the F-4 crew was taken by helicopter to the 
area where they had tracked the landed UFO. The spot turned out to be a dry lakebed. 
Instrumentation aboard the helicopter registered a strong beeping signal over and around the 
lakebed. The strongest signal came from the area of a small house. The helicopter landed and the 
residents were questioned by military personnel about events of the previous night. The family 
members said they heard a loud noise and saw a very bright light, similar to lightning. Further 
investigation was apparently done to determine possible radiation residue. We have found no 
documentation of the results of the radiation testing and other post-event investigation, although it 
should be noted that this event was confirmed by satellite. The satellite tracking numbers can be 
obtained from Mr. Tony Craddock of the Disclosure Project. 




390 






6.9 RAF/USAF Bentwaters - Woodbridge - December 1980 




One of the most important close encounters ever reported by the military, with documentation 
obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, is the multiple-witness events which occurred 
at a joint British/American NATO air base in England. The release to American researchers of 
the memorandum detailing the eye witness account of Lt. Col. Charles E. Halt (later promoted to 
Colonel), deputy commander of the base, gave tremendous credence to the investigative reports 
done at the time of the incident. It is important to note this Halt memorandum states that the 
initial event occurred “Early on the morning of 27 Dec 80 (approximately 0300L).” 75 In 
September, 1994, one of the security men present at the encounter, Staff Sargent James Penniston 
underwent voluntary hypnosis about the event. He stated that though during hypnosis by 
government agents a few days after the event he was told that the stories from the witnesses 
would be the same, but would have different dates. 76 This may explain why the dates in different 
reports are confusing. It is generally accepted that the initial event occurred early in the morning 
hours of December 26, 1980. 


RAF/USAF Woodbridge is located eight miles east of Ipswich, Suffolk in England, and is 
one-half of the twin bases whose other half is the RAF Bentwaters NATO Air Base. All of the 
main buildings and quarters were at Bentwaters, although Woodbridge had its own runway. 
During World War II, the twin bases served as a maintenance unit for front line forces in 
Germany. Hercules transports and huge helicopters were based here. It was entirely a US base, 
manned almost exclusively with US personnel, with only a token Brit in residence who was given 
the rank of squadron leader. 77 The large and dense Rendlesham Forest surrounds the bases. 


The Close Encounters 


Over two nights on the Christmas holiday weekend in 1980, astonishing close encounters 
occurred on the twin air bases of Bentwaters and Woodbridge. Preceded by a visit outside the 
forest to a nearby residence, a UFO landed in the forest on the Bentwaters Air Force Base around 
2:30 am on December 26, 1980. It was witnessed first by two soldiers on patrol. The men first 
thought they were seeing a beam from a lighthouse and then guessed it could be "light-alls" — 
large, portable bright lights which effectively turned night to day to provide visibility for 
nighttime maneuvers. As they watched, the hovering light descended below treetop level. The 
soldiers thought perhaps a plane had just crashed on the Bentwaters runway. The men radioed to 
headquarters. Three relief guards were sent out, and this first pair missed the rest of the 
encounter. Two of the relief guards went by jeep and then by foot through the forest in pursuit of 
the UFO. The men described it as somewhat triangular in shape and possessed blue, white and 
red lights around the perimeter of the bright white body of the craft. When the soldiers came 
within sight of the UFO, it was hovering just above the ground, or resting on landing gear on the 
ground. It lifted up and drifted slowly when one of the soldiers got very near, then shot straight 
up at a dizzying speed while casting a bright light onto the forest, causing cattle to panic. The 
two soldiers were dazed by the event. A search party found them almost an hour later, still 
disoriented. British police were called in; airport radar controllers were contacted. Heathrow 
reported a target on radar that disappeared in the Bentwaters vicinity, and reports of bright lights 
in the sky had come in at various times from all around southern England. It was confirmed that 




75 Official Department of the Air Force memorandum byLt. Col. Charles I. Halt, 13 January’ 1981. Appendix I. 
(Document A1 . 12) 


76 Howe, Linda Moulton, Glimpses of Other Realities, Volume II: High Strangeness. Paper Chase Press, New 
Orleans, 1998. 478 pp. 


77 Randles, Jenny, Out of the Blue, Global, 1991, Berkley Books, New York, 1993. 




391 






no air traffic was above Rendlesham at the time of the incident. 




Additional encounters ensued the following night. Several military personnel saw UFOs 
perform maneuvers that no known human-engineered devices could carry out, including changing 
shape and size. 


Near midnight on the 26th, a four-man team set out to investigate the area in Rendlesham 
Forest where the UFO had come to rest the night before. Soon they observed a highly unusual 
curtain of light with mist or fog below it. As the soldiers got closer, they could see a structured 
object, described to be of indeterminate shape but with yellow, red and blue lights on it. The 
multi-colored object backed away while a high level of static electricity saturated the atmosphere, 
causing hair to stand on end. The soldiers radioed to Lt. Col. Flalt, the deputy commander at 
Bentwaters, who told them to stay put, that he would bring reinforcements and join them. 


Lt. Col. Flalt and approximately thirty soldiers arrived who began to erect light-alls, which 
initially failed to function. Flalt dictated notes into a portable tape recorder, registering radiation 
readings that increased in the area where the UFO had landed the previous night and left three 
imprints in a triangular shape in the soil, and detectable heat signatures on the surrounding trees, 
which were visible through a starlight scope. 


Shortly before 2:00 a.m., Col. Flalt and the soldiers saw a single yellow-red light on the 
ground, which caused the animals on the adjacent farm to become agitated. Suddenly, the 
lighted object rose and glided in the air towards them, issuing from itself a stream of multi- 
colored lights. Other military men saw the light merge into the foggy essence on the ground and 
implode within it. There was a tremendous flash of light and the fog transformed into a solid, 
domed disc with a fluorescent glow to it, rimmed with blue light. The area of blue light on the 
craft showered out sparkling colored bits that fell onto the ground. Allegedly, two separate 
military men took photographs of this object. The craft lifted and began to produce more 
spectacular light displays around its rim. It hovered and hobbled in the air in front of the soldiers. 
As the UFO moved away, up to five separate lighted objects were observed. 


The men watched the objects move out over Woodbridge and towards the sea where they put 
on a lengthy display, sometimes appearing as half-moons and sometimes as full circles, always 
sparkling with colored light. Flowever, the encounter was to become close once more. One of 
the UFOs raced above the forest toward them, sending down beams of light. Two soldiers on a 
separate detail reported an amoiphous structure of light weaving through the trees that sent light 
beams straight through tree trunks then seemed to explode above them like a dying star. The 
night’s incredible events had spanned more than four hours. 78 


Civilian Witnesses 


The first eyewitness was a resident on the other side of Rendlesham Forest in Sudboume 
named Gordon Levett. Levett was outside preparing to put his dog away for the night. A huge 
mushroom-shaped bright object drifted in from the sea and hovered silently in the sky above 
Levett and his large guard dog, who began trembling and remained shaken by the event 
throughout the following day. During an interview with British UFO researcher Jenny Randles, 
Levett recalled: 




78 Details in this narrative taken from Out of the Blue by Jenny Randles, and NBC-TV television program 
Unsolved Mysteries, first air date, September 18, 1991. 




392 






My attention was drawn to the sky by some u nk nown means. I do not know what made me 
look up. But I saw a shape over the coast, which was headed towards me. My dog saw it too 
and his attention became fixed upon it... The thing glowed with a strange phosphorescence as 
it dropped down to a very low height and hovered... I would say that its size was similar to the 
roof of my house.. .The object moved away across the woods towards RAF Woodbridge...The 
next day my dog was still upset. It refused to come out of its kennel and was trembling and 
cowering. This was most unusual behavior. 79 


The second night’s events were witnessed independently by other non-military citizens who 
had sightings off the premises of the base. Arthur Smekle saw a mass of lights in the sky above 
Rendlesham Forest about 1 1 :00 pm while driving home through the forest. He mentioned it when 
he got home but was reminded that it since he was adjacent to the air base, it was probably just an 
aircraft. The Webb family all saw a huge white mass of lights in the sky at 2:30 am (now 27 
December) while driving home to Martlesham. They stopped the car by the side of the road and 
watched it hover silently, then shoot off through the sky at extreme speed. Several farmers in the 
area also were interviewed or submitted reports to the British investigators. One of the farmers 
had even called into the base and reported bright lights in the sky just before the UFO came into 
the Bentwaters compound. 


Forest Ranger James Brownlea found physical traces of the landing in the forest the 
following month. While the official government memo by Col. Halt was not released for another 
two and one-half years, Brownlea’s January 1981 report describing finding a hole in the tree 
canopy, scorched trees and unusual marks on the ground coincide with what Lt. Halt officially 
reported to the British Ministry of Defense and the United States Air Force. 80 


Col. Halt’s report details the events of the second night’s encounters as follows: 


Later in the night a red sun-like light was seen through the trees. It moved about and 
pulsed. At one point it appeared to throw off glowing particles and then break into five 
separate white objects and then disappeared. Immediately thereafter, three star-like objects 
were noticed in the sky, two objects to the north and one to the south, all of which were 
about 10° off the horizon. The objects moved rapidly in sharp angular movements and 
displayed red, green and blue lights. The objects to the north appeared to be elliptical 
through an 8-12 power lens. They then turned to full circles. The objects in the north 
remained in the sky for an hour or more. The object to the south was visible for two or three 
hours and beamed down a stream of light from time to time. Numerous individuals, 
including the undersigned, witnessed the activities in paragraphs 2 and 3. 81 


As of the writing of this book in 1997, Col. Halt is a still-living military commander who 
witnessed one of the most remarkable, documented UFO encounters in military history. This 
event continues to be the subject of further research. Larry Warren describes the details of his 
own experiences in his book “Left at East Gate”, coauthored with Peter Robbins 82 . 




79 Ibid, p. 73. 


80 Ibid, p. 75. 


81 Official Department of the Air Force memorandum by Lt. Col. Charles I. Halt, 13 January’ 1981. 


8 ~ Warren, Larry, et al. Left at East Gate: A First-Hand Account of Bentwaters-Woodbridge UFO Incident, Its 
Cover-Up and Investigation. Marlow & Co., 1998. 




393 






6.10 The Japan Air Lines Incident (1986) 




On November 17, 1986, Captain Kenju Terauchi was at the helm of a B-747 cargo jet. The 
two-person crew consisted of a flight officer and a flight engineer. Captain Terauchi was a 29- 
year veteran pilot in 1986. Flight 1628 was en route to Tokyo via Rekyjavik, Iceland and 
Anchorage, Alaska. At approximately 6:00 pm in the evening, the aircraft was passing over the 
Canadian/Alaskan border and the crew was making preparations to land at Anchorage. At 6:19 
pm Alaska Standard Time, Capt. Terauchi radioed a traffic information request to the Anchorage 
Air Route Traffic Control Center. Air Traffic Control Specialist Carl Henley checked his radar 
and told the captain there was no traffic in his vicinity. Capt. Terauchi responded that lighted 
traffic was in close proximity at 12 o’clock at the same altitude as Flight 1628, following or 
shadowing his aircraft. Terauchi declined a request by Specialist Henley to check higher and 
lower altitude traffic, stating later that the object was level with the plane. Henley checked with 
Elmendorf Air Force Base radar and learned they had a primary target in the same position 
Terauchi reported. During some of the frequent radio exchanges between Henley and Flight 
1628, Henley did find primary returns in the same areas JL1628 reported traffic. Terauchi 
requested and obtained permission to make turns and deviations. The captain reported to Henley 
that the object stayed right with the 747. 


At one point, Terauchi asked for and obtained permission to make a 360° turn to the right to 
fly parallel to the object, at which time it was not visible. When Terauchi returned to his original 
course, the object was there, as if it had been waiting for them, the Captain later said in his 
statement for the FAA. Specialist Henley also vectored a United Airlines aircraft and a military 
C-130 within range to have a look. Each pilot reported no contact, although Terauchi had also 
lost visual sight of the UFO by then. 


During the course of the event, Henley observed three types of tentative radar targets. When 
Henley asked Terauchi to describe the object, he stated that he could not identify any markings 
nor state what kind of aircraft it might be. Under clear, cloudless conditions, Terauchi stated that 
he saw white and yellow strobing lights on the unidentified craft. The 747’ s on-board color radar 
was employed throughout the course of the sighting to determine the distance from the plane to 
the object as five to seven nautical miles. 


Capt. Terauchi and his crew were interviewed and debriefed by Jack Wright 83 of the FAA 
upon landing at Anchorage. During the debriefing, Capt. Terauchi stated that this was the first 
time anything like this had happened to him. Explaining the incident, Terauchi said that just after 
passing the Canadian/Alaskan border, flying at 35,000 feet, an object, at times larger than the B- 
747, with four or five lights in a line, appeared approximately five to seven nautical miles in front 
of the aircraft. At times, more than one UFO was visible. The sighting lasted nearly an hour— 55 
minutes per the FAA report. 


Although the Captain and his crew were a bit shaken, the FAA determined them to be 
professional and rational. 


According to Timothy Good’s account in his book Above Top Secret, Captain Terauchi 
reported that he was unable to explain the event in conventional terms and said that the objects 
may have been extraterrestrial in origin since they moved and stopped so quickly. The Captain 
remarked that they were carrying French wine to Japan, stating "maybe they wanted to drink it." 84 




,Vj Incident and interview report by Jack Wright (FAA) in Appendix I. (Documents Al. 13). 
84 Good, Timothy, Above Toy Secret, William Morrow, New York, 1988, p. 432. 




394 






See also the personal statements about this case by Air Traffic Control Specialist Carl E. 
Henley 85 and an Alert Report by Fra nk lin L. Cunningham, Director, AAL-1 86 . 


6.11 The United Kingdom Wave of the 1990s - Triangular Craft and More 


Flying triangles — huge, silent, low — and slow-flying, yet capable of acceleration at 
extremely high speeds. We began to learn of these objects during the massive Belgium wave 
beginning in 1990. The Disclosure Project activated its first investigative team to do real-time 
research in March of 1992. 87 Over 2,000 sightings were registered in Belgium, many of them by 
law enforcement and military personnel 88 . Indeed, the triangle had been tracked on both civilian 
and military radar through maneuvers and exhibiting speeds far in excess of that which any 
conventional or experimental aircraft could be capable 89 . 


In 1992, UFO activity increased dramatically in Scotland. Settled in the towns and valleys 
between Edinburgh and Glasgow, reports started coming in with regularity. One particular town, 
Bonnybridge, seemed to be the focal point of the flap. A close-knit community of about 5,500 
people, young and old alike have reported numerous sightings of various craft, including the 
triangles. Bonnybridge Councilor Bill Buchanan stated in August of 1996, "To my knowledge, 
3,000 people have seen something unusual in our skies during the past few years. ..And there may 
be many more who have been afraid to come forward. 90 


In the early years of the wave, most sightings involved balls of light, often spinning and 
maneuvering among themselves, or black discs. In the mid-1990’s, sightings of triangular craft 
were often reported. Skysearch Scotland, an investigative group led by the Malcolm family in 
Falkirk, began amassing not only reports but videotape footage of what appeared to be lights in 
triangular formation, balls of light, and black triangular-shaped hovering craft. Witnesses 
reported seeing these objects dive into the sea or emerge from it. Several Bonnybridge area 
residents recounted Close Encounters of the Fifth Kind, or human-interactive experiences. A 
young gentleman from Armadale told of a 35-40 foot bar-shaped object that came rapidly down 
from the sky during a lightning storm. It flew low over the hedgerows and passed directly over 
the man’s car, then came to a halt in a field. The witness reported, "it just sat there, hovering 
silently, about 1 5 feet off the ground. I got out of the car and pointed my halogen lamp at it to get 
a better look. Immediately, the bulb blew. Then my headlights went out. I tried the car ignition, 
but it wouldn’t start. Suddenly, the thing leapt up and reversed at incredible speed over the top of 
the car." 91 The witness called the police on his cell phone, but it was an hour later than when the 
sighting occurred. The gentleman cannot account for the missing hour. After his vehicle was 
towed back to town, the electrical system functioned perfectly once more. 




85 Personnel Statements - Federal Aviation Administration by C. Henley in Appendix I. (Documents Al. 14). 


86 Alert Report by Franklin L. Cunningham, Director, AAL-1 in Appendix I. (Documents Al . 1 5). 


87 Greer, Steven M. UFOs over Belgium, Chapter 30 in: Extraterrestrial Contact: The Evidence and 
Implications, Crossing Point, Inc. Publications, Afton, VA 1999. 


88 US Department of Defense report of Belgium sightings in Appendix I. (Document A 1.1 6). 


89 Paris Match article includes photos of radar screen sighting of UFO in Appendix I. (Document Al. 17). 


90 Daily Mail, (London) Weekend section, August 3, 1996. 


91 Ibid 




395 






Starting in 1994, a spate of sightings of huge triangular craft began to come in from England. 
Most reports came from the Midlands and to the north. However, several reports were received 
from the southwest of England. Each incident had remarkable similarities. Eye witnesses 
reported the triangular craft to be dark or black, blending in with the night sky. The craft often 
had a light at each apex of the triangle, and a different type of light in the center. The huge 
objects flew at a low altitude and a low speed. They were either totally silent or emitted a slight 
humming noise. 


In the summer of 1996, a family was coming home to Glastonbury in southwestern England 
about dusk on a Sunday evening. Suddenly, the driver - the father - noticed a dark, silent shape 
pacing the car. The entire family observed a huge triangular craft at low altitude above them. 
After observing it for a bit, the object was seen to simply vanish. 92 In October and November of 
1996, significant waves of sightings of black triangles occurred in the United Kingdom, including 
a hot spot in the Cardigan Bay area of West Wales where numerous sightings were reported 
within these two months. 


Two articles in The Sunday Times (London) in August of 1996 report that the triangular craft 
has been identified as an experimental craft unveiled by the U.S. Air Force and NASA in August 
1996. The articles speculate that because of a near collision with a 747 commercial jet in 1995, 
the government had come clean. Rumors have surfaced since 1995 of an experimental triangular 
craft sighted in California and Nevada which was called "The Flying Dorito", no doubt not its 
official name. According to The Sunday Times, the "wave-rider" craft was proposed in the 
1950s by British scientist Terrence Nonweiler. The account goes on to give specifications of the 
craft — capable of speeds in excess of 3,000 mph; ‘surfs’ on the air; low speed flight and ability to 
float or hover near ground level (termed "LoFlyte"). The article further cites avionics experts 
who claim the triangle cannot be traced by radar and that a computer ‘flies’ the craft because 
human pilots are unable to perform all of its complex maneuvers. 93 


The mystery of the gigantic triangular craft is far from solved. Sightings continue to be reported 
around the world to the present day. Many hundreds of these recent triangular craft sightings can 
be found on the Web site for the National UFO Reporting Center found at 
www.msatech.com/nuforc/index.html. 




6.12 The Mexico Wave - From 1991 


The solar eclipse in 1991 was total in Mexico City. Many people were outdoors observing and 
videotaping. Much to their surprise, what they captured on tape in addition to the eclipse began 
an unprecedented wave of UFO sightings that has continued unabated from 1991 to the time of 
this writing in 1997. 


On the day of the eclipse, seventeen people in four cities videoed what appears to be the same 
object: a silver disk whose chunky shape earned it the moniker of the "hockey puck." One tape 
was shot by a television network executive, another by a priest; indeed, by people from all walks 
of life in cities spread out across the vast Mexican landscape. The tapes began arriving in the 
mail of Jaime Maussan, the host of "60 Minutos", the Mexican version of our "60 Minutes" in the 
USA. Sr. Maussan launched a thorough, in-depth investigation of the phenomenon. He had as 
guests on his show many of the people who had taken the videotapes. His investigation included 




g ~ Personal correspondence, The Disclosure Project. 




° J The Sunday Times, London, August 11, 1996, as reported by Greg Little, Alternate Perceptions magazine, 
Issue #36, Fall 1996. 




396 




extensive computer analyses. The results revealed that the same type of UFO, or “ovni” as it is 
called in Mexico, was captured by all the tapes, and each one appeared to disturb the air behind it. 
These features were noted in each one of the videotapes taken on that July day. Further 
investigation ruled out stars, planets or balloons as possible explanations. As time went on, tapes 
continued to be taken and sent to investigators, including Sr. Maussan. Many ovnis were filmed 
near jets taking off or landing at the Mexico City airport. There was often a visual lock-on with 
the ovni by pilots or air traffic controllers; however, the objects did not appear on radar. There 
were several reports from pilots of instruments suddenly malfunctioning momentarily when the 
ovni was nearby. There was concern about safety for the aircraft. Thankfully, none experienced 
any danger at all. 


An interesting correlation to the Mexico wave of 1991 came from 4,000 miles away on the 
same date. What appears to be the identical object was videotaped from Mt. Unsen, Japan. 
Indeed, when the videos from the four cities in Mexico are split-screened with the object shot in 
Japan, it is impossible to discern any differences. Those who would claim the entire Mexican 
wave on the solar eclipse is an elaborate hoax would be hard pressed to explain an identical, 
simultaneous sighting on the other side of the globe. Moreover, Sr. Maussan has received over 
3,000 videos since 1991 of the ‘hockey puck’ UFO as well as huge triangular craft. 


6.13 The Incident in Varginha - Extraterrestrial Life Forms captured in Brazil? 


Facts supplied by Vitorio Pacaccini, Belo Horizonte, Brazil 


On January 20, 1996, military forces captured two apparent extraterrestrial creatures - still alive 
- in Brazil. The captures occurred in neighboring areas of the city of Varginha, located in the state 
of Minas Gerais in central Brazil. The event is to be considered one of the most significant ever 
registered in Brazil, and perhaps in the entire world. Military authorities are keeping secret the 
details of the operation, but information has leaked to the UFO community due to the investigative 
work of Professor Vitorio Pacaccini and Ubirajara Rodrigues. Both men live nearby and are 
considered serious and dedicated researchers. They have devoted over 3,000 hours of investigation 
to this case. 


On the afternoon of January 20, about 3:30 pm local time, three young girls named Liliana, 
Falquira and Katia were walking outside of town. They came upon a strange, small creature in an 
area of small bushes at the edge of a field only a few blocks from where they live. It was a 
Saturday and the girls were returning home from their jobs. Crossing an empty area, their attention 
was attracted by a very weird creature just a few meters away. The ET was kneeling and looked as 
if it were hurt and suffering pain. No UFO was seen at that time. The girls observed the creature 
for a few minutes then ran away, afraid that what they had just encountered might be the devil. 


The three girls were extensively interrogated by the above-mentioned researchers, leaving no 
doubt whatsoever about what had happened. Very simple kids, they described the creature as being 
of a dark color with a small body of four to five feet in height. It had no hair at all, had a large 
brown head and small neck. The face was described as possessing two eyes - large and red - with 
no pupils visible. There was a slit in place of a mouth, a very small nose and, interestingly, three 
protuberances right on the top of its forehead. The girls described the protuberances as horns, thus 
causing them to fear they had just encountered a devil. 


Following the leads, researchers Pacaccini and Rodrigues started making inquiries everywhere 
around the town of Varginha to see if anybody else had seen the same creature. They found several 
people who observed the military operations as well as the creature in the same location and. 




397 






perhaps, other creatures in different locations. While conducting the investigation, both men 
discovered that different witnesses had seen army trucks and other military vehicles and personnel 
that very morning, just a few blocks from where the girls had their encounter. 


While trying to find out what the military were doing, Pacaccini and Rodrigues came to meet a 
few soldiers and sergeants. One of the soldiers decided to talk secretly about the military mission 
and gave a confidential taped interview. The military man confirmed that at about 9:00 am on 
January 20, the Fire Department of Varginha was called by the military to capture a strange 
‘animal’ in the Jardim Andere district. Among the firemen who responded were Sergeant Palhares, 
Soldier Nivaldo, Corporal Rubens and Soldier Santos, under the command of Major Maciel who 
was reportedly present as well. Arriving at the scene, the firemen saw that this was no strange 
animal at all and realized the finding should be reported to the Army Sergeant School Command - 
Escola de Sargentos das Annas (ESA) in neighboring Tres Coracoes, about ten miles from 
Varginha. Before there could possibly be time for the Sergeant School to respond, an army truck 
appeared on the scene. The firemen understood that the high staff of ESA also had been informed 
about the incident. 


The creature was captured using nets and other equipment normally used to capture wild 
animals. The still-living creature was placed in a one meter square wooden box, which was 
covered with a resistant fabric and the whole affair was placed atop the army truck. The creature 
was curled up in the box and wrapped in net. The witnesses stated that it was emitting a buzzing 
sound similar to a bee. The vehicle headed to the ESA. All personnel involved were ordered by 
Lieutenant Colonel Wanderley to refrain from talking about the incident with anyone else, telling 
the men it was a secret operation. Interestingly, Lt. Col. Wanderley’s expertise was in atomic- 
biological-chemical warfare. Perhaps this is why he was put in charge of the operation even though 
there was a general in command of the ESA at the time. 


Policeman Marco Chereze was involved with the capture of one of the creatures. He touched 
the life form without protection. He died two weeks later with a general infection. The family 
showed Sr. Pacaccini the last blood exam, which showed that his blood contained 8% of an 
unknown toxic substance. According to Sr. Pacaccini, the Varginha police department has gone 
to great lengths to attempt to prove that Sr. Chereze was not even working on January 20, 1996. 
However, the Chereze family confirms that he was indeed on duty that night, that he came home 
briefly to change clothes and inform them that he could not come back for dinner because he 
would be working late on a mission. 


After the first soldier gave the taped interview to Pacaccini and Rodrigues, a few other 
military people came forward to speak about the incident, under the condition that their identities 
would be kept secret. All those who came forward gave confidential taped interviews. All 
confirmed that a second creature, probably the one seen by the three girls in the afternoon was 
captured the same night by personnel from the army, fire department and police secret service. 
Through the investigative efforts of Pacaccini and Rodrigues, many of the details of the recovery 
operation are now known. 


The second creature, identical to the first, was taken alive to the regional hospital in Varginha. 
After spending a few hours at the regional hospital, the creature was transferred to the better 
equipped Humanitas Hospital. Two days later, on the afternoon of January 22, the creature — 
now dead — was the subject of a huge and well-disguised operation to remove it to the AS. 


A few nurses and other personnel from the regional hospital confirmed some facts, although 
they were suppressed for some time after the incident. All individuals at Humanitas Hospital who 




398 






had contact with the creature were admonished to not discuss it with anyone, not even their 
relatives, and to specifically avoid the press and UFO researchers. 


Interviews with some of the military men involved in the removal operation who gave 
confidential interviews reported that three army trucks were used, each with a two-man team. 
They speculated that three trucks were used to remove one possibly extraterrestrial body so that 
none of the trucks would know who was indeed transporting the body of the creature. The 
Brazilian investigators have since determined these facts. The driving teams, although kept 
outside the hospital itself, observed details of the operation. Military personnel from Brazil’s S-2 
— the Army internal intelligence section — was in charge of getting the corpse from the interior 
of the hospital, placing it lying down in a wooden box and then loading it into one of the trucks. 


All three trucks went back to ESA. The next morning at 4:00 am, the trucks headed to another 
military facility located in Campinas in the state of Sao Paulo, a 200-mile drive. There, the 
coipse was transferred to the University of Campinas, one of Brazil’s best institutions. The body 
was autopsied by Dr. Fortunato Badan Palhares, who gained worldwide acclaim as one of the best 
forensic doctors alive when he conducted the autopsy of the famous German Nazi Mengle, whose 
body was found in Brazil. However, Dr. Palhares has publicly denied having taken part in the 
autopsy of the creature found in January of 1996. 


One year after the Varginha incident, another witness came forward — Joao Bosco Manoel. 
He called Sr. Pacaccini. He and Sr. Rodrigues met with him and heard his story. He was an 
independent witness to the capture of the first creature. At approximately 10:45 am on January 
20, Sr. Bosco was in the area selling fish door-to-door when his attention was diverted by a fire 
truck and firemen, but no evidence of a fire. He hid and watched the goings on. He observed six 
firemen hurriedly emerging from the bushes, followed by four firemen wearing big gloves and 
between them were carrying the creature wrapped in a net. The life form was put into the truck 
and the men drove away. Sr. Bosco noticed an extremely acrid, ammonia-like smell permeating 
the open air. Sr. Bosco spoke at a press conference and made his story public, stating that he 
could identify at least two of the firemen. This caused something of an uproar due to the official 
denial surrounding the story. Sr. Bosco was intimidated and threatened following his press 
conference, and Sr. Pacaccini spent a great deal of time meeting with him following threatening 
incidents. Sr. Bosco eventually moved out of the state of Minas Gerais. 


The Brazilian media has widely reported on the incident and the majority of the population 
understands that the case is real and that the military and civil authorities are keeping the facts 
absolutely quiet. Researchers Pacaccini and Rodrigues have determined that the policemen 
involved in the captures have since been transferred and promoted. For a period of time after the 
incident, the region where Varginha is located, in the southern part of the state of Minas Gerais, 
was experiencing one of the largest waves of UFO sightings ever registered, including reports of 
huge UFOs observed at close range and reported contacts with inhabitants. This event was 
covered on the front page of The Wall Street Journal Europe 94 although the article’s tone was 
very much tongue in cheek and is a good example of mainstream media reporting techniques 
discussed in section 4. 1 . 


6,14 The Arizona Sightings - March 1997 




94 Moffett, Matt, The Wall Street Journal Europe, July 1, 1996 




399 






On March 13, 1997, flying objects traveled across a large portion of southern Arizona. Seen 
by thousands, videotaped by many, evoking comment from the military and government, the most 
significant UFO event in a decade occupied a prominent place in the press and gained worldwide 
attention. 


The National UFO Reporting Center 95 in Seattle, Washington, received its first call at 8:16 pm 
on March 13. A retired police officer from Paulden, Arizona, sixty miles north of Phoenix, called 
in to report observing five red lights in a cluster headed south. In less than two minutes, another 
report came in from Prescott, fifteen miles south of Paulden. It all broke loose after that, with 
multiple calls coming in from Wickenburg to Tempe. The Center’s director, Peter Davenport, 
who describes himself as usually skeptical about the reports received at the Center, stated: “The 
incident over Arizona was the most dramatic I’ve seen.. .what we have here is the real thing. They 
are here.” 96 


As the airborne objects came over the flight paths leading to the Phoenix Sky Flarbor Airport, 
more than one commercial pilot radioed to the control tower asking for an identification of the 
lights. The air traffic controllers had no answers. They could visually see the objects, yet 
nothing unaccounted for appeared on their radar screens. 


Investigation subsequent to March 13 revealed that callers jammed police department phone 
lines, as well as television and radio station phones. Luke Air Force Base near Phoenix was also 
besieged with calls of sighting reports as the objects traveled south over the greater Phoenix 
metropolitan area. The objects’ speed over greater Phoenix was estimated by many observers as 
a leisurely 30 miles per hour. This certainly suggests that the objects indeed wanted to be seen 
and videotaped. 


A variety of UFOs were reported: triangles, lights in a straight line, orbs in a V-shaped or 
delta formation, an actual solid triangular-shaped object. Many witnesses stated that the lights 
seemed to glow from within — they were very bright but did not shine or cast light. Most 
observers who saw them at closer range stated the lights were white with orange to red edges and 
centers. Some witnesses could discern a dim, dark shape behind the light formation that distorted 
or blotted out the stars as it slowly passed. The Disclosure Project’s director and research 
director spoke with a retired Air Force pilot on the evening of March 14 who saw the lights 
clearly from his home. Fie resides in Carefree, which is north of Phoenix and has much less light 
pollution than within the city. Fie described the lights as silent, slow moving and maintaining a 
formation. Fie stated that this was unlike anything he had witnessed in the skies during his entire 
career as a military pilot. 


Regardless of the type of formation seen, all observers agreed that the lights or objects were 
slow moving, very large and totally silent. The size of the object was estimated as being from 
900 feet to more than a mile in length. Computer analysis of witness’s videotapes done by 
Village Labs in Tempe marked the length as 6,000 feet — well over a mile long. 


Richard Price of USA Today, in an article appearing in the June 18, 1997 issue, interviewed 
witness Bill Greiner, who stated he would never be the same after the sighting. Mr. Greiner 
turned from a skeptic to someone who saw what he describes as "astonishing and a little 
frightening." Mr. Greiner, a cement truck driver, was hauling a load of cement down a mountain 
north of Phoenix when he saw two white, orange and red UFOs. Fie described them as having 
spinning tops. Greiner observed one of the orbs break away and fly over Luke Air Force Base. 
Fie stated that three F-16 fighter jets went in pursuit of the UFO. As the jets approached, the 
UFO shot straight up and quickly vanished. In Mr. Greiner’s words: "It was crazy. I know those 




95 Website at: www.msatech.com/miforc/index.htmI 


96 Richard Price, Arizonans say the truth about UFO is out there. USA Today newspaper article, June 18, 1997, 
p. 4A. See reprint of the whole article in Appendix (Document AI.l 8). 




400 






pilots saw it. Hell, I’ll take a lie detector test on national TV if that guy from the base does the 
same thing... I wish the government would just admit it. It’s like having 50,000 people in a 
stadium watch a football game and then having someone tell us we weren’t there." 


The analyses of the amateur video tapes undertaken at Village Labs by Jim Dilettoso and his 
partner Michael Tanner reveal that four different formations or objects traveled from north to 
south on the evening of March 13, 1997. The transit across the region lasted 106 minutes. The 
lights were uniform, did not vary in brightness or intensity across the span of each light, and did 
not glow. They were determined not to be aircraft lights, holograms, lasers or military flares. 
Comparison with the lights on the Phoenix skyline seen in the videos shows the UFOs to be 
markedly unique. 


The residents of southern Arizona were intrigued, curious and expected an explanation from 
the civilian and military authorities. While several reports from various military personnel stated 
that the lights were flares being used during National Guard war game maneuvers, Mr. Dilettoso 
stated that investigation revealed the National Guard could not, would not and did not cause the 
lights that were seen by thousands of Arizonans on March 13, 1997. While jets from Luke Air 
Force Base were in the Phoenix skies on that night, a spokesman from the base assured the press 
that the jets’ lights could not account for the sightings. 


Reacting to the groundswell coming from the local citizenry, Phoenix Councilwoman Frances 
Barrows raised a question at a city council meeting as to whether anyone was conducting an 
official investigation. Instantly, the public seized upon her comment and made her their "official" 
contact to the government. Although Councilwoman Barrows said she did not see the objects 
herself, many of her constituents did. When the public and the media learned of her raising the 
question of an investigation, hundreds of calls were received from the curious citizens who now 
had a public servant upon whom to focus. 


But the city council, the mayor’s office, the governor’s office and US Senator John McCain 
were unable to effect any official action. Senator McCain referred it to the US Air Force, who 
announced in June 1997 that it would do nothing to investigate the incidents, referring it back to 
the local jurisdictions. And, of course, this would be the Air Force’s position since they have 
officially been out of the UFO investigation business since the closure of Project Blue Book in 
1969. 


Two years later, the above mentioned National UFO Reporting Center released a special 
update report on their web site 97 based on a significant amount of evidence collected since the 
original sightings. The update substantiated the earlier reports of both the objects size, 
appearance, and movements. In contrast to sightings and reports by both air traffic controllers and 
a commercial flight crew on the ground at Sky Harbor Airport near Phoenix, “senior officers from 
Luke Air Force Base stated that they knew nothing about the incident, and that the base had 
received no reports from the public regarding the event” (as stated the day after the sighting event 
took place). Long distance telephone bills, which indicate calls to the base, contradict the 
statements made by these officers. Finally, a witness who identified himself as an airman 
stationed at Luke Air Force Base, reported that the Air Force had launched two fighters from the 
base and “that one of the aircraft had ‘intercepted’ a gigantic object over the intersection of Indian 
School Road and 7 th Avenue.” 


It is not surprising that even after two years, the sorting out of the truth from conflicting reports 
makes an analysis of this very well documented event difficult. The search for additional clues into 




97 Report at: www.msatech.com/nuforc/phoenix.html 




401 






this momentous day in March 1997 continues to intrigue researchers, analysts, the media and 
thousands of residents of Arizona and beyond. 


6.15 St. Clair, Illinois Sightings in Jan, 2000 


One of the more recent and well-documented sightings observed by multiple witnesses occurred 
during the early morning hours of January 5, 2000 in St. Clair County, 1L just east of St. Louis, 
MO. This sighting was researched by several organizations including NUFORC 98 , MUFON 99 , 
and NIDS 100 and later a TV documentary 101 was aired which included excellent computer 
simulations on what was seen based on all the various witness reports. The following summary 
description is quoted from the NUFORC report of the event. 102 


“On Wednesday, January 05, 2000, the National UFO Reporting Center received two 
telephone messages (at 0316 and 0351 hrs. Pacific Standard Time) from Officer Thomas ‘Ed’ 
Barton, employed by the Lebanon, IL, Police Department. The messages apprised our Center that 
a UFO sighting had occurred in St. Clair County, Illinois, and in surrounding areas, at 
approximately 0410 hrs. (Central) earlier that morning. 


“Later the same morning, we were able to talk to Officer Barton, who reported to us the 
following: 


At approximately 0410 hrs. (Central) on that morning, he overheard an announcement by the St. 
Clair (IL) Emergency Dispatch operator that a citizen had entered the Highland, IL, police 
station, and requested that an officer go outside and view a very peculiar object that was hovering 
nearby in the sky. The citizen had witnessed the bizarre looking object on his way to work, and 
he apparently refused to leave the station until a police officer had viewed the object with him. 


“Having heard the announcement about the incident over his radio. Officer Barton looked to 
the southeast from his location in Lebanon, and noticed two extremely bright white lights 
suspended in the sky, close to the horizon. The two lights were radiating so much light that the 
spectacle reminded Officer Barton of the Japanese ‘Rising Sun’ symbol, used on the Japanese 
battle flag. A very short period of time later, the two large lights appeared to merge into one, and 
the illumination the object was radiating appeared to increase dramatically. 


“Officer Barton began driving south and east in attempt to approach the object. He turned his 
overhead flashers on, and at times was driving at 75-80 M.P.H. toward the object, which was still 
generally to the southeast of his position. After a short period of time, Officer Barton realized 
that the object appeared to be traveling toward him. 


“ He stopped his vehicle, extinguished his overhead flashers, and rolled down the window on 
the passenger side of his vehicle. The object approached his location, and passed overhead at an 
estimated altitude of 1,000 to 1,500 feet, and within an estimated 100 feet lateral distance of his 
position on the ground. It was headed generally to the west, or northwest, at this time. The 
object was distinctly triangular in shape, with three white lights on the apices of the triangle, and 




9S National UFO Reporting Center 


99 Mutual UFO Network 


100 The National Institute for Discovery’ Science 


101 “UFO Over Illinois: Anatomy of a Sighting”, Discovery’ Channel, 2000 


1112 Report prepared by: Peter B. Davenport, Director, on Monday, January’ 10, 2000, at 2300 hrs. (Pacific). 
(Revised on January’ 22, 2000.). Web site at: http://www.msatech.com/nuforc/CB0001Q5.html 




402 






it exhibited a ‘galaxy’ of peculiar lights on its aft end, including white, hues of red or pink, and 
perhaps other colors, as well. 


“After passing overhead Officer Barton, the object suddenly turned to its left, without either 
banking or yawing apparently, it suddenly accelerated quite dramatically, and seemed to ‘streak’ 
to the west, covering approximately 8 miles, the officer estimated, in approximately 3 seconds. 
(Note: Officer Barton, in multiple telephone conversations with our organization, and during at 
least one radio broadcast, has emphasized how almost unbelievably quickly the object accelerated 
and moved a considerable distance to the southwest in just a few seconds. Its velocity was almost 
unimaginable, he reports. This is one aspect of the case that strongly suggests to us that the 
object almost certainly was not of human manufacture.) 


“He radioed St. Clair County Emergency Dispatch, apprising them that he had the object in 
sight, and advising them as to the direction it had moved, generally to the southwest. He 
recommended that dispatch contact units to the south and west of his position, e.g. Shiloh, 
Millstadt and Dupo, to have the officers there attempt to spot the object from their vantage points. 


“Apparently at least one officer from Shiloh, IL, witnessed the object next, and two other 
officers, who have not come forward and who apparently do not wish to be identified, witnessed 
the object while they were standing in the cemetery of their town, as well. 


“An officer from the Millstadt Police Department, Officer Craig Stevens, with whom 
NUFORC also spoke, overheard the broadcast, and moved his cruiser to a dark part of that town 
to see if he could spot the object in the night sky. He quickly spotted the object to the west of his 
location, at approximately 45 degrees above the horizontal plane, and gauged its size as ‘huge.’ 
He estimated that it was ‘one or two stories tall, and perhaps three stories long.’ It had several 
very bright lights on it. 


“St. Clair Dispatch requested that someone, if possible, attempt to get a photograph of the 
object. In response to that request, Officer Stevens removed Polaroid- type camera stored in the 
trunk of his cruiser and quickly photographed the object. Because the outside temperature was 
low, approximately 18-20°F, neither the camera, nor the film functioned well, so the resolution of 
the photograph is not good. 


“After Officer Stevens had taken the photograph, the object appeared to move further to the 
west, moving toward Dupo, IF, Cahokia, IF, and St. Fouis, MO. A Dupo police officer may have 
witnessed the object at that time. 


“In the final analysis, the police departments and communities involved in the incident include 
the following: Highland, Summerfield, Febanon, Shiloh, Mascoutah, Millstadt, Dupo, and 
Cahokia, Illinois. The object was observed by officers from at least the following communities 
(in chronological sequence): Febanon, Shiloh, (Other?), Millstadt, Dupo, and Cahokia (?). 


’’Notes and Addenda: 


”1) Scott Air Force Base: At one point during the sighting, we estimate, the object was within 2- 
3 statute miles of Scott Air Force Base. However, an official spokesman for that base reportedly 
made an official statement to the effect that A) their tower was closed for approximately one hour 
during the time of the sighting; B) their base radar had been turned off for unspecified reasons 
during the same hour; and C) none of their personnel was aware of the sighting, and none had 
seen the object.” 




403 






Five more notes and addenda follow this section and can be seen in the original report. 




7.0 A SUMMARY REVIEW OF ENERGY AND 
ANTI-GRAVITY RESEARCH 




Compiled by Anthony J. Craddock 
with assistance from Dr. Paul LaViolette and other researchers 


Since the time of the great Nikola Tesla (and before), a small sector of the scientific 
community has known that so-called “free energy” can be extracted from our surroundings, and 
that many other exotic forces and effects, such as “anti-gravity”, are also waiting to be liberated at 
our beck and call. 


In his 1899 Colorado Springs experiments, Tesla discovered the electro-gravitational (or 
scalar) wave, which oscillate the energy density of the vacuum and hence oscillate the curvature 
of space-time. So, over a century ago, it appears that Tesla had already produced a unified field 
theory of gravitation and electromagnetics. His discoveries were so fundamental, and his intent 
to provide free energy for all humankind was so clear, that it was probably responsible for the 
withdrawal of his financial backing, his deliberate isolation, and the gradual removal of his name 
from the history books. 


The zero-point energy of a vacuum is the lowest energy vacuum state, with fluctuations taken 
into account. Even at low energies, quantum fluctuations continually arise, and result in an 
incessant, extremely rapid and violent "jittering" of the energy momentarily present. The 
minimum energy due to these quantum fluctuations is called the zero-point energy >. The amount 
of this energy is HUGE. Some scientists have hypothesized that one cubic centimeter of pure 
vacuum contains enough energy to condense into 10 80 - 10 120 grams of matter! Quantum 
mechanically, no system of interest (including even space-time itself) can have zero energy. The 
so-called “free energy” is actually obtained by tapping into the above-described zero-point 
energy. 


The bedrock of much of modem science is Classical Electromagnetic Theory (CEM). James 
Clark Maxwell developed this 136 years ago in an exotic algebra known as quaternions. In order 
to render it more assimilable for use by working electrodynamicists, it was deliberately re-written 
in much simpler language by Oliver Heaviside (and Gibbs) in 1903. This simplification (and 
truncation) eliminated a whole subset of the equations including the scalar electromagnetics and 
the gravitational aspects that were contained in the original theory. At last count, there are at 
least thirty-four known flaws in Clark Maxwell’s hoary old theory, which is what is still taught in 
today’s classrooms. Some of the world’s leading scientists, such as Wheeler, Feynman, Bunge, 
Margenau, Barrett, Comille, Evans, Vigier, and Lehnert have all written about CEM’s 
deficiencies. 


When this missing “Heaviside subset” of Classical Electromagnetic Theory is restored, and 
the brilliant 1903 and 1904 work of a Cambridge University mathematician, E.T. Whittaker, 
factored in, all of a sudden one has the supposedly elusive Holy Grail of Science - a true Unified 




404 






Field Theory that unites General Relativity, Quantum Mechanics, Mind and Subtle Energy 
Phenomena and Classical EM Theory. 


But in fact, for the advancement of humanity, the real Holy Grail could be argued to actually 
be contained in this missing subset, not in the more grandiose sounding Unified Field Theory. 


For it is this “scalar potential” that stresses local space-time, i.e. the 3 spatial dimensions AND 
time, which allows the “bleed-through” of additional electromagnetic energy to create overunity 
electromagnetic systems. Indeed, the restoration of this missing subset also shows that Einstein’s 
Theory of General Relativity was also only a subset of the real theory that he was trying to write. 
Even though Einstein has been lionized for his theory of General Relativity (Time Magazine 
“Man of the Century”), he himself is on record as saying that the so-called foundations of physics 
need constant review, and that his Relativity Theory was not necessarily cast in concrete. 


A further impediment to the theoretical extraction of “free” energy was also imposed on what 
was left of Maxwell’s already diluted EM Theory by H.A. Lorentz around 1902. He simply 
arbitrarily threw away the monstrous amount of current outside the circuit that was not 
intercepted by the circuit, and that he could not theoretically account for. This he termed “of no 
physical significance!” - even though it is approximately 10 13 times greater than the intercepted 
current in our everyday electrical circuits! He thus perpetually locked EM systems in a 
theoretical and figurative iron box that would never allow them to go overunity and bleed in and 
capture additional energy. 


Energy cannot be created or destroyed, and examples abound of where systems (such as heat- 
pumps or windmills) put out more energy than they take in, simply by transducing other energy 
sources. This is called overunity, when the outputted energy added to additional transduced 
energy from another source puts out more energy than is provided by the original primary source. 
Conventional science “allows” this in every aspect of “conventional science” WITH THE SOLE 
(ARBITRARY) EXCEPTION OF ELECTROMAGNETISM. 


But, by not “allowing” the curvature of space-time locally, which is a way to open the gate to 
the “free” vacuum energy, one can well see why some entrenched economic interests have 
discouraged investigation of this physicist into this awesome source of energy. Indeed, we have 
been told that the US Patent Office has strict instructions not to allow any Patent for a meaningful 
overunity electromagnetic system or one that would appear to threaten the status quo of our 
present power suppliers. 


Occasionally, however, the veil does inadvertently get lifted on some of the wondrous suppressed 
overunity systems, only to quickly be dropped again. 


Here are a few examples: 


Tesla’s Self-Powered Automobile 


In 1931, in a very secret program, Tesla built an overunity, self-powered electrical power 
system, placed it in a Pierce Arrow automobile, and ran the car around successfully. A 
relative who rode with him in the car confirmed it many years later. Some details are 
described in Marc Seifer’s biography of Tesla as follows: 


"The car [was] a standard Pierce Arrow, with the engine removed and other components 
installed instead. The standard clutch, gearbox, and drive train remained ... Under the hood, 




405 






there was a brushless electric motor, connected to [or in place of] the engine... Tesla would 
not divulge who made the motor. " 


"Set into the dash was a "power receiver" consisting of a box... containing 12 radio 
tubes... A vertical antenna, consisting of a 6 ft. rod, was installed and connected to the power 
receiver [which was] in turn, connected to the motor by two heavy, conspicuous cables... 
Tesla pushed these in before starting and said: ‘We now have power. " 


This Tesla device seems to have been remarkably similar to the radiant energy amplifier of T. 
Henry Moray described below. Also, Tesla coined the term “radiant energy” with respect to 
natural media in two of his patents. 


Further, we have Barrett’s mathematical demonstration that Tesla’s actual patented circuits, 
when viewed in a higher topology, did indeed freely shuttle energy in the circuit as desired. In 
short, it appears that Tesla knew how to make circuits that asymmetrically self-regauged 
themselves creating overunity systems and therefore self-powering systems. 


This is an entirely different operation than just the present entropic transfer of voltage used by 
electrical engineers today. It is more akin to deliberately regauging desired sections of the circuit, 
so that excess energy appears there from an external source. In short, it is akin to asymmetrical 
self-regauging, and also to the type of operation of circuits that Kron (discussed below) 
discovered so laboriously but never entirely revealed. 


No technical details were ever released on how Tesla’s self-powered automobile system 
worked. The Tesla papers eventually turned over to his native country did not contain the actual 
"critical" papers present in his room at the time of his death. Those "critical" papers were 
illegally removed from his room as if Tesla were an illegal alien (he was a naturalized U.S. 
citizen, so the entire action was blatantly illegal). If those "critical" papers are still in existence, 
then they are still highly classified and hidden from conventional scientists. Cheney in her 
biography on Tesla reports finding the location of those papers. 


The free energy electrical automotive power system part of Tesla’s work was financed by the 
same world financier who financed Adolph Hitler’s rise to power as well as much of the early 
Communist takeover of Russia. It is speculated that because of this financial control, Tesla 
would not have been allowed to put that car into production by one of the U.S. automotive 
companies 


Some recent references and patents based in part on Tesla’s work are as follows: 


Barrett, T.W., "Tesla’s Nonlinear Oscillator-Shuttle-Circuit (OSC) Theory," Annates de la Fondation Louis de Broglie, 
16(1), 1991, p. 23-41. 


Barrett, T.W. and D. M Grimes. [Eds.] Advanced Electromagnetism: Foundations, Theoiy, & Applications, World 
Scientific, (Singapore, New Jersey, London, and Hong Kong), Suite IB, 1060 Main Street, River Edge, New Jersey, 
07661, 1995. 


"Active Signalling Systems," U.S. Patent No. 5,486,833, Jan. 23, 1996. 


"Oscillator-Shuttle-Circuit (OSC) Networks for Conditioning Energy in Higher-Order Symmetry Algebraic 


Topological Fonns and RF Phase Conjugation," U.S. Patent No. 5,493,691. Feb. 20, 1996. 




406 






The Moray Radiant Energy Device 




In the early 1900’s, Dr. T. Henry Moray of Salt Lake City produced his first device to tap 
energy from the metafrequency oscillations of empty space itself. Eventually he produced a free 
energy device weighing sixty pounds and producing 50,000 watts of electricity for several hours. 
Ironically, although he demonstrated his device repeatedly to scientists and engineers, he was 
unable to obtain funding to develop the device into a useable power station that would furnish 
electrical power on a mass scale. 


In the 1920’s and 1930’s Moray steadily improved his devices, particularly his detector tube, 
the only real secret of the device according to Moray himself. In his book 103 , The Sea of Energy > 
in Which the Earth Floats, Moray presents documented evidence that he invented the first 
transistor-type valve in 1925, far ahead of the officially recognized discovery of the transistor. In 
his free energy detector tube Moray apparently used, inside the tube itself, a variation of this 
transistor idea — a small rounded pellet of a mixture of triboluminescent zinc, a semiconductor 
material, and a radioactive or fissile material. His patent application (for which a patent has never 
been granted) was filed on July 13, 1931, long before the advent of the Bell Laboratories’ 
transistor. 


In test after test Moray demonstrated his radiant energy device to electrical engineering 
professors, congressmen, dignitaries, and a host of other visitors to his laboratory. Once he even 
took the device several miles out in the country, away from all power lines, to prove that he was 
not simply tuning in to energy being clandestinely radiated from some other part of his 
laboratory. Several times he allowed independent investigators to completely disassemble his 
device and reassemble it, then reactivate it themselves. In all tests, he was successful in 
demonstrating that the device could produce energy output without any appreciable energy input. 
According to exhaustive documentation, no one was ever able to prove that the device was 
fraudulent or that Moray had not accomplished exactly what he claimed. 


The records are full of signed statements from skeptical physicists, electrical engineers, and 
scientists who came to the Moray laboratory and left with the complete conviction that Moray 
had indeed succeeded in tapping a universal source of energy that could produce free electrical 
power. 


But in the face of all of this, the U.S. Patent Office refused to grant Moray a patent, first, 
because his device used a cold cathode in the tubes (the patent examiner asserted it was common 
knowledge that a heated cathode was necessary to obtain electrons) and, second, because he 
failed to identify the source of the energy. All sorts of irrelevant patents and devices were also 
presented as being infringed upon or duplicated by Moray’s work. Each of these objections was 
patiently answered and nullified by Moray; nonetheless, the patent has still not been issued to this 
day, although the Morays still keep the patent application current. 


John Moray, who operates the Research Institute in Salt Lake City, has been trying to 
continue his father’s work since the basic unit was destroyed by a Russian double agent. Dr. 
Moray himself died in May 1974. 




103 Moray, T. Henry’, The Sea of Energy in Which the Earth Floats, 4th Edition. See also Moray, T. Henry’, 
The Sea of Energy, 5th ed., Salt Lake City’, 1978. Foreword by T.E. Bearden. 




407 






Gabriel Kron and the Negative Resistor 




At the time of his death, Gabriel Kron was considered by some the greatest “non-linear” 
scientist ever produced by the United States. 


A negative resistor is defined as any component or function or process that receives energy in 
unusable or disordered form and outputs that energy in usable, ordered form, where that is the net 
function performed. We specifically do not include "differential" negative resistors such as the 
tunnel diode, thyristor, and magnetron which dissipate and disorder more energy overall than they 
order in their "negative resistance" regimes. 


It appears that the availability of the Heaviside energy component surrounding any portion of 
the circuit may be the long sought secret to Gabriel Kron’s "open path" that enabled him to 
produce a true negative resistor in the 1930s, as the chief scientist for General Electric on the U.S. 
Navy contract for the Network Analyzer at Stanford University. Kron was never permitted to 
release how he made his negative resistor, but did state that, when placed in the Network 
Analyzer, the generator could be disconnected because the negative resistor would power the 
circuit. This negative resistor, one might add, was developed at the expense of the U.S. 
Taxpayer. 


Since a negative resistor converges surrounding energy and diverges it into the circuit, it 
appears that Kron’s negative resistor gathered energy from the Heaviside component of energy 
flow as an "open path" flow of energy — connecting together the local vicinities of any two 
separated circuit components — that had been discarded by previous electrodynamicists 
following Lorentz. Hence Kron referred to it as the "open path." Kron describes this as 
follows 104 : "...the missing concept of "open-paths" (the dual of "closed-paths") was discovered, in 
which currents could be made to flow in branches that lie between any set of two nodes. 
(Previously — following Maxwell — engineers tied all of their open-paths to a single datum 
point, the ‘ground’). That discovery > of open-paths established a second rectangular 
transformation matrix... which created ‘lamellar’ currents..." "A network with the simultaneous 
presence of both closed and open paths was the answer to the author ’s years-long search. " 


A true negative resistor appears to have been developed by Kron. He described his apparent 
success in 1945 stating 105 : " When only positive and negative real numbers exist, it is customary to 
replace a positive resistance by an inductance and a negative resistance by a capacitor (since 
none or only a few negative resistances exist on practical network analyzers). " Apparently Kron 
was required to insert the words "none or" in that statement. He also wrote that 106 : " Although 
negative resistances are available for use with a network analyzer, ..." suggesting in rather certain 
terms that negative resistors were available for use on the network analyzer. 




104 Kron, Gabriel, "The frustrating search for a geometrical model of electrodynamic networks, " circa 1962. 


105 Kron, Gabriel, "Numerical solution of ordinary’ and partial differential equations by means of equivalent 
circuits," Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 16, Mar. 1945, p. 173. 


106 Kron, Gabriel, ‘‘Electric circuit models of the Schrodinger equation, ” Phys. Rev. 67(1-2), Jan. 1 and 15, 1945, 
p. 39 




408 






University of Moscow Scientists tested Overunity devices in 1930s 


In the 1930s Russian scientists (Mandelstam et al. 107 ) at the University of Moscow and 
supporting agencies developed and tested parametric oscillator generators exhibiting COP 108 > 
1.0. The theory, results, pictures, etc. are in both the Russian and French literature, with many 
references cited in this particular translation. Apparently the work was never resurrected after 
WW II. 


Other pertinent Russian references include: 


Mandelstam, L.I.; and N.D. Papaleksi, "On the parametric excitation of electric oscillations," 
Zhumal Teknicheskoy Fiziki, 4(1), 1934, p. 5-29 
Mandelstam, L. and N. Papalexi, "On resonance phenomena with frequency distribution," Z.f. 
Phys.,No. 72, 1931, p. 223 


"Concerning asynchronous excitation of oscillations," Zhumal Tekhnicheskoi Fiziki, 4(1), 


1934, p. TBD 


"Concerning asynchronous excitation of oscillations," Zhurnal Tekhnicheskoi Fiziki, 4(1), 


1934 


"Concerning nonstationary processes occurring in the case of resonance phenomena of the 


second class," Zhumal Tekhnicheskoi Fiziki, 4(1), 1934 
Andronov, A. “The limiting cycles of Poincare and the theory of self-maintained oscillations,” 
Comptes-Rendus, Vol. 189, 1929, p. 559. 


and A. Witt, “On the mathematical theory of self-excitations,” Comptes-Rendus, Vol. 190, 


1930, p.256 


“On the mathematical theory of self-excitation systems with two degrees of freedom,” 


Zhumal Tekhnicheskioi Fiziki, 4(1), 1934 


“Discontinuous periodic movements and theory of multivibrators of Abraham and Bloch,” 


Bull. De l’Acad. Ed Sc. De F’URSS, vol. 189, 1930. 


Chaikin, S., “Continuous and ‘discontinuous’ oscillations,” Zhumal Prikladnoi Fiziki, Vol. 7, 
1930, p. 6. 


and A. Witt, , “Drift in a case of small amplitudes,” Zhumal Teknicheskoi Fiziki, 1(5), 1931, 


p. 428. 


and N. Kaidanowski, “Mechanical relaxation oscillations,” Zhumal Teknicheskoi Fiziki, 


Vol. 3, 1933, p. 1. 


The Original Point-Contact Transistor 


The original point-contact transistor often behaved in true negative resistor fashion, but was never 
understood. The point-contact transistor was simply bypassed by advancing to other transistor 
types more easily manufactured and with less manufacturing variances. Point-contact transistors 
can easily be developed into true negative resistors enabling COP> 1.0 circuits. 


Burford and Vemer 109 (p.281) state that: "...the theory underlying their function is 


imperfectly understood even after almost a century... although the very: nature of these units 
limits them to small power capabilities, the concept of small-signal behavior, in the sense of the 




1117 L Mandelstam. [L.I. Mendel'shtam] , N. Papalexi, A. Andronov, S. Chaikin and A. Witt, "Report on Recent 
Research on Nonlinear Oscillations, " Translation of "Expose Des Recherches Recentes Sur Les Oscillations Non 
Lineaires," Technical Physics of the USSR, Leningrad, Vol. 2, 1935, p. 81-134. NASA Translation Doc. TTF- 
12,678, Nov. 1969. 


108 Note: COP stands for Coefficient of Performance 


109 William B. Burford III and H. Grey’ Vemer, Semiconductor Junctions and Devices, McGraw-Hill, New York, 
1965, p. 281-291.' 




409 






term when applied to junction devices, is meaningless, since there is no region of operation 
wherein equilibrium or theoretical performance is observed. Point-contact devices may therefore 
be described as sharply nonlinear under all operating conditions. " 




Over unity device installed in Minuteman Missile - patented by Westinghouse 


A frequency converter using 64 transistor stages and similar sophisticated feedforward and 
feedback mechanisms was placed in the original Minuteman missile, then deliberately 
modified to stop its demonstrated COP >1.0 performance. After much investigation, it was 
found that the units were putting out some 105% as much energy as they received. Some 
were exhibiting COP = 1.15. Very quietly, Westinghouse engineers then obtained several 
patents surrounding the technology, but no further mention of it appears in the literature 
although DeSantis et al. showed that feedback systems with a multipower open loop chain 
can produce COP >1.0 performance. Some of these patents are listed below: 


Andreatta, J.H. "High Power Switching Amplifier Wherein Energy is Transferred to a Tuned 
Circuit During Both Half Cycles," U.S. Patent No. 3,239,771, Mar. 8, 1966 
Dennis Jr., T.L. "Highly Efficient Semiconductor Switching Amplifier," U.S. Patent No. 
3,239,772, Mar. 8, 1966 


DeSantis R.M. et al., "On the Analysis of Feedback Systems With a Multipower Open Loop 
Chain," Oct. 1973, AD 773188, available through the U.S. National Technical Information 
System. 


Morrison, H.J. "Square Wave Driven Power Amplifier," U.S. Patent No. 3,815,030, June 4, 1974. 


The Astronauts’ Magnetic Boots 


In the original magnetic boots for astronauts developed by Radus et al. at Westinghouse, the 
magnetic fields themselves — from permanent magnets — were simply switched! The astronaut 
could pick up his foot by simply switching off the permanent magnetic fields easily. They 
switched on again when he placed the foot down. He did not have to carry a huge battery around 
with him, to furnish enormous current to do that. And the magnets had a memory. (So far as is 
known, even today no one tells you that in many virgin magnets fresh from the factory, their very 
first use conditions them with a memory! That fact can be used, for example, to create magnets 
whose fields appear normal, but which deviate from the normal behavior of ordinary magnets, 
including produce anomalies in their magnetic fields. 


It can easily be seen that, when one can switch a permanent magnet’s fields easily, and the 
magnet also has a built-in memory as did the Radus magnets, then with a little ingenuity in 
switching one could use such switchable magnets to produce a self-switching, self-powered 
permanent magnet motor. The magnet, being a permanent dipole, is already a particular kind of 
"free energy generator", since it continuously gates magnetic energy directly from the vacuum 
due to its asymmetry in the energetic vacuum flux. 


The entire subject of making permanent magnets with memories, and how to use such in 
operational systems, is still a largely unexplored, extremely obscure territory. In fact, most 
researchers are not even aware that the phenomenon exists. Some references on this topic are 
listed below: 


Astleford, Jr., J. and R. J. Radus, "Distribution Transformer with Zero-Percent Impedance," 
Westinghouse Engineering, 23(5), Sept. 1963, p. 148-151 




410 






"Zero Impedance Distribution Transformer," IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus & 


Systems, 83(9), Sept. 1964, p. 918-926 


Hangar, A.W. and A. A. Rosener, "The use of permanent magnets in zero-gravity mobility and 
restraint "footwear" concept," IEEE Transactions on Magnetics, Vol. MAG-6, No. 3, Sept. 
1970, p. 464-467. These crude "shuffler" boots are a contrast to the elegant 
Westinghouse/Radus "stepping" boots earlier developed and used by NASA. 


"Human fly has magnetic sole," Electrical Engineering, Apr. 1963, p. 294. 


Radus, R.J and W.G. Evans, "Apparatus Responsive to Direct Quantities," U.S. Patent No. 
2,892,155, June 23, 1959. 


Radus, R.J., "Permanent Magnet Flux Transfer Principle," Internal Westinghouse paper, date 
unknown 


Radus, R.J., "Permanent-Magnet Circuit using a ‘Flux-Transfer’ principle," Engineers’ Digest, 
date unknown (July 1963?), p. 86. 




Hitachi Engineers confirm Overunity Process 


Applications by Japanese inventor Teruo Kawai of adroit self-switching of the magnetic path 
in magnetic motors results in approximately doubling the COP. Modification of an ordinary 
magnetic engine of COP < 0.5 will not produce COP > 1.0. However, modification of available 
high efficiency (COP = 0.6 to 0.8) engines to use the Kawai process does result in engines 
exhibiting COP = 1.2 to 1.6. Two Kawai-modified Hitachi engines were rigorously tested by 
Hitachi engineers and produced COP = 1.4 and COP = 1.6 respectively. The Kawai process, 
which can be constructed directly from the Patent with appropriate switching (e.g. photon), and 
several other Japanese overunity systems appear to have been blocked from further development 
and marketing. 


Bearden, T.E., "Energetics Update and Summary," Part I, Explore, 7(6), 1997, p. 60-67; Part II, 
Explore, 7(7), 1997, p. 53-56; Part III, Explore, 8(1), 1997, p. 53-56; Part IV, Explore, 8(3), 
1997, p.56-63 


"The Master Principle of EM Overunity and the Japanese Overunity Engines," Infinite 


Energy >, 1(5&6), Nov. 1995-Feb. 1996, p. 38-55. 


“Energy Flow, Collection, and Dissipation in Overunity EM Devices," Proceedings of the 


4th International Energy Conference, Denver, Colorado, May 23-27, 1997, p. 5-51 
Kawai, Teruo, " Motive Power Generating Device," U.S. Patent No. 5,436,518. Jul. 25, 1995. 


The Magnetic Wankel Engine 


The Magnetic Wa nk el engine should also be capable of COP > 1.0 and closed-loop self- 
powering, but apparently it has also been suppressed, as have all Japanese COP > 1.0 EM 
systems. 


Bearden, T.E., "The Master Principle of EM Overunity and the Japanese Overunity Engines," 
Infinite Energy, 1(5&6), Nov. 1995-Feb. 1996, p. 38-55 


"The Master Principle of Overunity and the Japanese Overunity Engines: A New Pearl 


Harbor?" 


The Virtual Times, website http://www.hsv.com, January 1996. 




411 






Johnson’s Motors 


Howard Johnson 110 has built many novel linear and rotary motors and at least one self- 
powering magnetic rotary device that was later stolen in a mysterious break-in at his laboratory. 
Johnson uses a bidirectional "two particle" theory of magnetic flux lines that can be justified by 
Whittaker’s earlier work showing the internal bidirectional energy flows in all potentials and 
fields. He also utilizes controlled spin-waves and self-initiated precise exchange forces, which 
are known to momentarily produce bursts of very strong forcefields. His approach is to use 
highly nonlinear assemblies of magnets that initiate the foregoing phenomena at very precise 
points in the rotation cycle. In short, he seeks to produce precisely located and directed sudden 
magnetic forces, using self-initiated nonlinear magnetic phenomena. This is analogous to what 
the Wankel engine did using the Lenz law effect by sharply interrupting a weak current in an 
external coil. The Lenz law effect and other very abrupt field changes momentarily produce not 
only an amplified Poynting energy flow component, but also an amplified Heaviside energy flow 
component as well. Some relevant references include: 


Cullity, B.D, Introduction to Magnetic Materials, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1972 
Gurevich, A.G. and G.A. Melkov, Magnetization Oscillations and Waves, CRC Press, 1996 
L’vov, V.S., Wave Turbulence Under Parametric Excitation: Applications to Magnets, Springer- 
Verlag, Berlin, 1994 


L’vov, V.S. and L.A. Prozorova, "Spin Waves Above the Threshold of Parametric Excitation," in 
A.S. Borovik-Romanov and S.K. Sinha, (Eds.), Spin Waves and Magnetic Excitations, North- 
Holland, Amsterdam, 1988. 


Floyd Sweet’s Vacuum Triode Amplifier 


Sweet’s solid state vacuum triode used specially conditioned barium ferrite magnetics whose 
H-field was in self-oscillation. The device produced a COP = 1.2 x 10 6 (that’s 1.2 million!), 
outputting some 500 watts for an input of only 33 milliwatts. Sweet never revealed his complete 
ELF self-oscillation conditioning procedure for the magnets. However, in ferromagnets, self- 
oscillations of (1) magnetization, (2) spin-waves above spin-wave instability threshold, and (3) 
magnons are known at frequencies from about 1 kHz to 1 MHz. Under controlled conditions, the 
apparatus also exhibited anti-gravity properties, producing a weight reduction of 90% 
in one experiment. 


It may be of interest that Kron was a mentor of Sweet, who was his protege. Sweet, who is 
now deceased, worked for the same company, but not on the Network Analyzer project. 
However, he almost certainly knew the secret of Kron’ s "open path" discovery and his negative 
resistor. For an entry into this technical area with detailed reference citations, see: 


Gurevich, A.G. and G.A. Melkov, Magnetization Oscillations and Waves, CRC Press, 1996, p. 
279. 


L’vov, V.S., “Wave Turbulence Under Parametric Excitation: Applications to Magnets,” 
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1994, p. 214-218, 226-234, 281-289. 


Sweet, F. and T. E. Bearden, "Utilizing Scalar Electromagnetics to Tap Vacuum Energy," 
Proceedings of the 26th Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference (IECEC ‘91), 
Boston, Massachusetts, 1991, p. 370-375. 




110 Johnson, HR., "Permanent Magnet Motor." U.S. Patent No. 4,151,431, Apr. 24, 1979. See also Johnson's 
U.S. Patents 4,877,983, Oct. 31, 1989 and 5,402,021, Mar. 28, 1995 




412 






Dr. Deborah Chung’s Negative Resistor 


Dr. Deborah D. L. Chung, professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at University at 
Buffalo (UB), is the leading "smart materials" scientist in this country, and a scientist of 
international reputation. She holds the Niagara Mohawk Chair in Materials Research at UB and 
is internationally recognized for her work in smart materials and carbon composites. On July 9, 
1998 in a keynote address at the Fifth International Conference on Composites Engineering in 
Las Vegas, she reported having observed apparent negative resistance in interfaces between 
layers of carbon fibers in a composite material. The negative resistance was observed in a 
direction perpendicular to the fiber layers. 


Her team tested the negative resistance effect thoroughly, for a year in the laboratory. There 
is no question at all about it being a true negative resistor. Dr. Chung submitted a paper 
describing the research to a peer-reviewed journal, and the University filed a patent application. 
Several negative articles appeared quickly in the popular scientific press. Conventional scientists 
were quickly quoted as proclaiming that negative resistance was against the laws of physics and 
thermodynamics. Others thought perhaps the UB researchers had made a little battery and were 
unaware of it. 


On the web site for the University of Buffalo, it was announced that the invention would be 
offered for commercial licensing. A Technical Data Package was available for major companies 
interested in licensing and signing the proper non-disclosure agreements. Shortly thereafter this 
was no longer true, the data package was no longer available, and there was an indefinite hold 
on licensing and commercialization. It is still on hold as of this writing. 


Dr. Randell Mills and Blacklight Power 


In early 1989, Dr. Randell Mills discovered that the hydrogen atom could be collapsed below 
its ground state and give up significant amounts of energy. At first, it was thought that he had 
discovered a new form of cold fusion. However, he showed that his discovery was indeed a new 
form of energy from the collapse of the hydrogen atom (which he calls hydrinos). An early report 
showed as much as 1,000 times as much energy out as input energy. This excellent amount of 
thermal energy was attributed to the catalytic reactions that provide a receptor for the energy 
emitted when the hydrogen collapses. The newsletter Fusion Facts named Dr. Mills as Scientist 
of the year for his work. 


U.S. Patent 6,024,935 was granted in 2000 to Dr. Randell Mills and his company, BlackLight 
Power, Inc. The patent was unusually large with 60 pages and 499 claims. The patent is for 
Lower-Energy Hydrogen Methods and Structure. Information about this new field is on the Web 
site http://www.blacklightpower.com/index.html 


Cold Fusion 


The phenomenon of cold fusion was first reported by Utah researchers Stanley Pons and 
Martin Fleischman 111 , and has been successfully replicated in several hundred experiments in 
laboratories around the world in spite of a huge disinformation campaign. The situation with cold 
fusion is akin to the early days of aspirin. It works, but “conventional science” does not know 
how or why - ergo it is a threat to not only entrenched economic interests such as the centralized 
power industry, but also to the orthodox scientific community. 


Nuclear engineer Dr. Thomas Bearden has proposed several novel reactions, including the 
formation of time-reversal zones, which do explain cold fusion’s mechanism. This is the because 
these novel experimental anomalies are in fact caused by using time as an energy source by 




111 Fleischmann, Martin, Stanley Pons, and M. Hawkins, "Electrochemically induced nuclear fusion of 
deuterium," I. Electroanal. Chem., Vol. 261, 1989, p. 301-308 and erratum, Vol. 263, p. 187 




413 






transducing time-energy into spatial energy. Transducing one microsecond per second of time 
into spatial EM energy yields nearly 10 11 watts of power. It can thus be seen that time itself is 
potentially a huge source of power, and could well be the energy source of choice for the latter 
part of this century. 


An apparent variation on cold fusion, the Patterson Power Cell uses a thin film to achieve the 
same spectral results, a finding apparently confirmed by Professor George Miley at the University 
of Illinois. According to Dr. Eugene Mallove, a noted scientist and cold fusion analyst, during a 
test conducted by Motorola, the giant US electronics manufacturer, on the Patterson Power Cell. 
"One cell produced 20 watts continuously with zero input power. It is under non-disclosure, but I 
have that raw data and there is no doubt that in numerous such tests have seen these effects where 
a thermal difference of lets say 15 degrees centigrade persisted for eleven hours in a cell no 
bigger than my thumb. You had the functional equivalent of a twenty Watt light bulb heating 
water." 


COP’s of over 1200 have been reported from the Patterson Power Cell. Patents to James A. 
Patterson and articles include the following: 


Patterson, J.A "System for Electrolysis of Liquid Electrolyte," U.S. Patent No. 5,372,688, Dec. 
13, 1994; "Method for Electrolysis of Water to Form Metal Hydride," U.S. Patent No. 
5,318,675, June 7, 1994; "Metal Plated Microsphere Catalyst," U.S. PatentNo. 5,036,031, July 
30, 1991; "Improved Process for Producing Uniformly Plated Microspheres," U.S. Patent No. 
4,943,355, July 24, 1990 


Cravens, D. "System for Electrolysis," U.S. Patent No. 5,607,563, March 4, 1997. 


The foregoing examples are but a few of the known legitimate overunity systems. Lack of 
space precludes discussion of other proven systems by pioneers such as Bedini, Watson, Fogal, 
Nelson, Weigand, Lawandy, McKie etc. 


The following is a general bibliography on this subject: 


Heaviside, O., "On the Forces, Stresses, and Fluxes of Energy in the Electromagnetic Field," Phil. 


Trans. Roy. Soc. Loud., 183A, 1893, p. 423-480 
Heaviside, O., a series of papers in The Electrical Experimenter. 


Whittaker, E.T., "On the Partial Differential Equations of Mathematical Physics," Mathematische 
Annalen, Vol. 57, 1903, p. 333-355 


"On an Expression of the Electromagnetic Field Due to Electrons by Means of Two Scalar 


Potential Functions," Proc. Lond. Math. Soc., Series 2, Vol. 1, 1904, p. 367-372. The latter 
paper was published in 1904 and orally delivered in 1903. 


See particularly the paper by Evans et al. which for the first time deals very deeply with 
Whittaker’s two cited papers. M. W. Evans, L. B. Crowell et al., "On the Representation of the 
Electromagnetic Field in Term s of Two Whittaker Scalar Potentials," 1999 (in preparation). 
This is a group paper by 19 members and fellows of the AIAS ( Alpha Foundation Institute for 
Advanced Study). 


Alger, P.L., (Ed.), The Life and Times of Gabriel Kron, or Walking Around the World, and 
Tensors, Mohawk Development Services, Inc., Schenectady, NY, 1969. 


Hoffman, B., "Kron’s Non-Riemannian Electrodynamics," Reviews of Modern Physics, 21(3), 
1949, p. 535-540. 


Stigant, S.A. "Gabriel Kron on Tensor Analysis, A bibliographical record," BEAMA Journal, 
Aug. 1948, (this includes a bibliography of Kron’s publications.) 


More recent papers include the following: 


Bearden, T.E., "Use of Regauging and Multivalued Potentials to Achieve Overunity EM Engines: 
Concepts and Specific Engine Examples," Proceedings of the International Scientific 
Conference "New Ideas in Natural Sciences," St. Petersburg, Russia, June 17-22, 1996; Part I: 
Problems of Modern Physics, 1996, p. 277-297 




414 






"Use of Asymmetrical Regauging and Multivalued Potentials to Achieve Overunity 


Electromagnetic Engines "Journal of New Energy’, 1(2), Summer 1996, p. 60-78 


"The Master Principle of EM Overunity and the Japanese Overunity Engines," Infinite 


Energy >, 1(5&6), Nov. 1995-Feb. 1996, p. 38-55. 


“On Extracting Electromagnetic Energy from the Vacuum”, July 2000 


“Bedini’s Method for Forming Negative Resistors in Batteries”, 2000 


Burke, FI.E. ,Handbook of Magnetic Phenomena, V an Nostrand, New Y ork, 1985. 


Cole, D.C. and FI.E. Puthoff, “Extracting Energy and Pleat from the Vacuum,” Physical Review 
E, 48(2), Aug. 1993, p. 1562-1565. 


Kaganov, M.I. and V.M. Tsukemik, The Nature of Magnetism, 1985, Mir Publishers, 1985. 
Plotkin, FL, "The War Against Cold Fusion: What’s Really Behind It?” San Francisco Gate, May 
17, 1999. Webster at: www.sfgate.com 


Puthoff, H.E. “Source of Vacuum Electromagnetic Zero-Point Energy,” Physical Review A, 
40(9), Nov. 1, 1989, p. 4857-4862. 


Many other relevant papers can be see on the Department of Energy public Website at: 


http://www.ott.doe.gov/electromagnetic/papersbooks.html 


and the Tom Bearden Web site at: http://www.cheniere.org 


Though it will never power anything of substance, on December 31, 1996 U.S. Patent 
Number 5,590,031 was awarded to Fra nk lin B. Mead Jr. and Jack Nachamkin for a system for 
converting electromagnetic radiation energy to electrical energy. This is actually a proof of 
principle (using the Casimir effect) in that it definitely proves that there are ways to extract usable 
EM energy from the vacuum. It only takes one white crow to prove that not all crows are black! 
And that is definitely a fine little white crow. 


But the most ubiquitous gate of all for “free energy” is the simple little source dipole. The 
dipole becomes a universal kind of negative resistor extracting EM energy from the vacuum. 
Specifically it absorbs energy from the time-domain (complex plane) and emits the energy in real 
3-space. Unfortunately, lack of space precludes further discussion of this. 


Anti-Gravity and Electro-gravities 


There are two magic rules in the scalar electrogravitational business: 


(1) When ordinary EM force fields are interfered or summed so that they produce vector zero, 
they produce stress of vacuum (5-potential). One component of this 5-potential is the 4-space G- 
potential. Since bleed-off as a gradient of this 4-space G-potential is all that is allowed, then the 
EM destructive interference/zero summation bleeds-off to produce gravitational force field. 


In short, destructive interference of EM waves or force fields produces gravitational force 
field on detecting/coupled particles. 


(2) When electrogravitational fields are interfered/summed to produce vector zero, this 
destructive interference/zero summation bleeds-off to produce ordinary electromagnetic force 
field. 


In short, destructive interference of scalar EM waves or fields (electrogravitational waves or 
fields) produces electromagnetic force fields on detecting/coupled particles. 


Thus the age-old scientific dream of direct engineering of gravitational field - and of space- 
time itself - has now become reality. To start, one simply makes an EM vector zero and varies its 
stress intensity and internal pattern of summed components. One also varies the reference 
potential at which the patterned EM stress zero is created, and the frequency of internal 
component variation. 




415 








Here is the secret of antigravity: 


The "electrical charge" of a charged particle - such as one of the orbital electrons of an atom 
or one of the protons of its nucleus - represents a difference in flux intensity (potential) between 
the local particle and its ambient vacuum. 


It’s the continual bleed-off of gravitational charge as electrical charge. 


If that bleed-off is reversed or stopped, a drastic effect on the gravitational potential and 
charge ensues. The 5-potential and 5-charge have become 4-G-potential and 4-d-charge 
respectively. 


Thus "charging" an object with its scalar EM pattern charges it gravitationally. 


Now the only "bleed-off channel" is through the 4-G force field. 


Further, in a nucleus, the nucleons continually change back and forth between proton and 
neutron, so the electrical charge is "spread" throughout the nucleus and shared by all the 
nucleons. 


Further, each element (actually each isotope) has its own unique "ensemble pattern" of 
Fourier expansion scalar frequencies, amplitudes, etc. This pattern, of course, can be reproduced 
artificially and transmitted by modified EM transmitters (i.e., by scalar EM transmitters). There 
is, however, a sort of "master key" scalar EM (EG) pattern for nucleons (protons and neutrons 
which are changing back and forth into each other by exchange of virtual charge currents). 


If one "reverses the charge" by inverting this pattern, and then "charges up a mass with the 
inverted charge," to the external observer the charging mass just gets lighter and lighter, and its 
inertia gets less and less. Eventually it seems (to him) to acquire negative mass and negative 
inertia, and just accelerate away from the Earth. The object "falls upward" instead of "falling 
downwards." 


There are also some weird time effects; that object can be moving slower through time than 
the laboratory observer, or even be moving backwards through time with respect to the laboratory 
observer. (Don’t believe everything they taught you in relativity; few of those involved had ever 
engineered a single general relativistic situation. Nothing they teach in GR is based on direct 
experiment. Most of what they teach is already experimentally proven to be in error.) 


Inside the pattern itself, it’s just a quite normal pattern. No change in or on the object seem s 
to have occurred, to it, if the charge is evenly accomplished throughout the object. Indeed, to an 
internal observer it’s the external environment that seems to have suddenly gotten very strange! 


For example it appears that this is what occasionally happens to a hapless aircraft or ship that 
experiences anomalous spatiotemporal difficulty in an occasionally scalar-active area such as the 
infamous Bermuda triangle. Under the right conditions, the vehicle’s gravitational charge is 
affected by anomalous changes in the scalar radiation from the Earth in that area. To the 
passengers and crew, it is the external environment that suddenly seems weird. In addition, on- 
board EM and inertial instruments may be affected, and other electrogravitational effects may 
also occur, due to differing rates of charge in different parts of the vehicle.). 


"Reversing or lowering the EG-charge" is controlled by means of biasing the ground potential 
on the ensemble pattern transmitters. These transmitters can even be on-board the vehicle itself 
because, in scalar EM, to transmit is also to receive. A vehicle can change its own bias potential 




416 






(with respect to local vacuum G-potential) by properly transmitting, which translates to 
"receiving potential charge." The charge current can either be negative or positive (its potential 
can be lowered or increased vis-a-vis that of the vacuum.) 


By fiddling with this, you can float metal. Or a human body. Or a battleship. Or a high- 
speed vehicle containing a crew. 


You can even "dematerialize it" or "teleport it." 


In the “Philadelphia Experiment” in the 1940s, the test ship, the minesweeper 1X97 
(originally the yacht “Martha’s Vineyard”) and its personnel were "blasted" into this strange 
realm, instead of making a gentle, controlled entry. Nicola Tesla, virtually on his deathbed, had 
instructed the scientific team involved how to do this. (See Bob Beckwith’s book “Hypotheses” - 
Beckwith was a GE scientist on the team). The results of this experiment, which produced 
inadvertent time travel from the experimental ship’s location to another location and back and 
produced horrendous results (crew members were fused through the deck etc.), are slated for de- 
classification in 2002, according to private sources. 


Suppose one materially lowers or reverses (adjusts) the gravitational charge (gravitation 5- 
potential with zero-summed EM to throttle EM bleed-off). At zero gravitational charge, to the 
external observer, the vehicle seems to have no mass and no inertia . It is capable of extreme 
accelerations, right angle turns at full speed, etc. It is also right on the point of dematerialization, 
and appears to be a vehicle of light. 


If the pilot wishes to "land," of course he must adjust the charge on the vehicle. 


If the pilot wishes to "dematerialize" or "teleport," again he must adjust the charge on the 
vehicle. 


If he wishes to go "hyperspatial," again he must adjust the charge on the vehicle and allow 
the proper bleed-off to produce a hyperspatial force. That is done with nested zero summations 
and nested patterns of scalar EM transmission. 


That is, he can charge and bias the vehicle in multiple, nested zero-summations 
simultaneously. 


That is necessary for hyperspatial control and travel. 


Note that in lower hyperspace the vehicle can do some very strange things. Such as 
"penetrate" solid matter (actually, it goes "around" the 3-space matter in a 4th Kaluza-Klein 
space). 


One would expect to see such vehicles glowing. Their various surface features and 
mechanisms might also appear to be glowing or revolving lights, etc. 


They could exhibit incredible "aerodynamic performance," seemingly in the atmosphere. 


Actually they would not be moving "through" the atmosphere at all, but through a higher 
space outside each particle of atmosphere. 


They could seem to materialize and dematerialize. 




417 






They could seem to plunge into the ocean or rise out of it. 


They could even seem to operate under the ocean or inside the Earth itself. 


Such anomalous vehicle performances have been seen all over the world, particularly since a 
few years after WWII. 


The U.S. government, the Soviet Union (and probably other nations of Earth) are operating 
such vehicles now in great secrecy (as are our ET visitors). 


This however isn’t our true "govemment/govemment." Instead, it’s the "control 
group/government." It’s government at the operational level, but at higher level it belongs to 
certain control groups who have penetrated our government’s vitals and taken over all such 
projects. 


Electrogravitation seems to have been started time and time again in the U.S. government. 
Each time, it seems to have either been violently squelched or subverted to mysterious control by 
sources inside the government that are not actually government. 


In any such "subverted" project, the individuals involved in the operations are truly 
government employees who fully believe their highly classified project is controlled by the U.S. 
government. They thi nk the higher government officials with need-to-know are fully cognizant 
of the project. 


Actually that assumption will be false. At the top of the project, the project does not report to 
the U.S. government . It reports to control group representatives. Utmost secrecy classification is 
used as a cloak to disguise the project even from higher U.S. government officials who are in the 
direct chain and possess the appropriate certified clearances and need-to-know. 


Thus one has to be careful when he asks, "Doesn’t our own government have such things?" 
The answer is both yes and no. 


Our legitimate government/govemment is not allowed to have these vehicles, or know of 
them. 




Our illegitimate control group/govemment has had them for some decades. 


Townsend Brown’s Technology of Electrogravitics 


In the mid 1920’s Townsend Brown discovered that electric charge and gravitational mass are 
coupled. He found that when he charged a capacitor to a high voltage, it had a tendency to move 
toward its positive pole. This became known as the Biefeld-Brown effect. His important 
findings were opposed by conventional minded physicists of his time. 


The Pearl Harbor Demonstration. Around 1953, Brown conducted a demonstration for top 
brass from the military. He flew a pair of 3-foot diameter discs around a 50-foot course tethered 
to a central pole. Energized with 150,000 volts and emitting ions from their leading edge, they 
attained speeds of several hundred miles per hour. The subject was thereafter classified. 




418 






Project Winterhaven. Brown submitted a proposal to the Pentagon for the development of a 
Mach 3 disc shaped electrogravitic fighter craft. Drawings of its basic design are shown in one of 
his patents. They are essentially large-scale versions of his tethered test discs. 


Aviation Studies International. They are a think tank that produces intelligence studies for 
the military. In 1956 they issued a report entitled "Electrogravitic s Systems" which called for 
major government funding to develop Townsend Brown’s electrogravitic s technology and make 
Project Winterhaven a reality. The report stated that most of the aerospace was actively 
researching this antigravity technology. It named companies such as: Glenn-Martin, Convair, 
Sperry-Rand, Bell, Sikorsky, Douglas, and Hiller. Other companies who entered the field 
included Lockheed and Hughes Aircraft, the latter being regarded by some as the world leader in 
the field. This report was initially classified. Dr. Paul LaViolette accidentally discovered it in 
1985 when he found it listed in the Library of Congress card catalog, but the document was 
missing from their collection. Their staff made a computer search and found that the only other 
known copy was located at Wright Patterson Air Lorce Base. LaViolette later obtained it from 
Wright Patterson through interlibrary loan. It is now published in the book Electrogravitics 
Systems, T. Valone (editor)." 


Northrop’s Wind Tunnel Tests. In 1968, engineers at the Northrop Corp. performed wind 
tunnel tests in which they charged the leading edge of a wing to a high voltage. They were 
investigating how this technique could be used beneficially to soften the sonic boom of aircraft. 
Hence they were performing large-scale tests on Brown’s electrogravitic concept. Brown’s R&D 
company had previously made known that sonic boom softening would be a beneficial side effect 
of this electrogravitic propulsion technique. Interestingly, Northrop later became the prime 
contractor for the B-2 bomber. 


The B-2 Bomber. In 1992, black project scientists disclosed to Aviation Week and Space 
Technology > magazine that the B-2 electrostatically charges its exhaust to a high voltage and also 
charges the leading edge of its wing-like body to the opposite polarity. This information led Dr. 
LaViolette in 1993 to reverse engineer the B-2’s propulsion system. He proposed that the B-2 is 
essentially a realization of Townsend Brown’s patented electrogravitic aircraft. The B-2 is 
capable of taking off under normal jet propulsion. But when airborne, its electrogravitic drive 
may be switched on for added thrust. This system can only be turned on under dry conditions. If 
the B-2’s dielectric wing were to become wet, the applied high voltage charge would short out, 
which explains why the B-2 is unable to fly in the rain. Brown’s electrogravitic experiments and 
a field theory that LaViolette had developed (1985, 1994a) both suggest that the B-2’s high 
voltage space charge differential sets up a gravity gradient from fore to aft that assists the craft’s 
forward movement. LaViolette’ s theory suggests that the aftward movement of charges around 
the B-2 may contribute an even larger gravitational thrust effect, an effect also seen in Brown’s 
electrokinetic experiments. 


With electrogravitic drive, the B-2 is able to drastically cut its fuel consumption, possibly 
even to zero under high-speed flight conditions. The commercial airline industry could 
dramatically benefit with this technology, which would not only substantially increase the miles 
per gallon fuel efficiency of jet airliners, but would also permit high-speed flight that would 
dramatically cut flight time. 


The movement of the charges may contribute an even larger thrust effect. The same would 
apply to the B-2 bomber. 




419 






Sid Hurwich 




In 1969, Toronto inventor Sid Hurwich demonstrated his gravitational field manipulation 
device to the Toronto police. Inspector Bill Dolton, the Chief of the Holdup Squad, contributed 
his service revolver for the demonstration. The revolver was then frozen onto the table, and he 
was unable to lift the pistol or pull the trigger. After a half hour or so in the room for the 
experiment, clocks and watches had not changed their time from the time of entry, showing a 
strong space-time curvature. 


The device was subsequently used in the Israeli’s raid on Entebbe, Uganda on July 3 rd , 1976 
and later described in the Vancouver Sun Times’ Weekend Magazine December 17 th , 1977, p.17. 
“Israel’s Secret Weapon.” 


In several fascinating papers 112 published in the year 2000, Brazilian Physics Professor Fran 
De Aquino shows that by manipulation of the gravitational field he was able to: extract energy 
directly from the gravitational field, and levitate a 77 lb. toroidal object two feet in diameter using 
extra-low frequency radiation. Professor De Aquino is a Professor in the Physics Department at 
Maranhao State University, S. Luis/MA, Brazil. Professor De Aquino advises that the papers 
were peer reviewed by 36 scientists, up to and including a Nobel laureate. 


The Searl Electrogravity Disc and Russian Experiments. This device, developed over 40 
years ago by the British engineer John Searl, consisted of a segmented rotating disc each of 
whose segments was supported by a set of cylindrical permanent magnets rolling within a 
circumferential track. It is alleged to have achieved complete lift off. In the past few years two 
Russian scientists associated with the Russian National Academy of Sciences, Roschin and 
Godin, have built a simplified version of the Searl Disc that confirm s its anomalous weight loss 
effects. They spun aim diameter disc at 600 lpm and obtained a 35% reduction in its weight 
while at the same time generating a 7 kilowatt excess electric power output. 


The Podkletnov Gravity Shield and Project Greenglow. A research team in Finland led by 
Dr. Podkletnov was experimenting with a rotating superconducting disc that was floated on a 
repelling magnetic field generated by a series of electromagnets. In 1996, they reported that the 
disc was able to partially screen the Earth’s gravitational field, reducing the weight of objects 
positioned above the disc by two percent. Greater weight reductions are envisioned by stacking 
several discs over one another. Besides propulsion, there are obvious applications to tapping the 
resulting gravity differential for mechanical power generation. In the last few years, BAE 
Systems a company formed by the merger of British Aerospace with Marconi Electronic Systems, 
has been researching the Podkletnov gravity shield. They are doing this work under Project 
Greenglow, a project they have set up to investigate the feasibility of nonconventional 
technologies. 


Gravito Inertial Lift System. Aerospace engineer Jim Cox has recently improved on the 
Dean Drive, an inertial propulsion engine that was patented in May 1959. He reports tests 
demonstrating an upward thrust equal to 90% of the engine’s weight. It uses a 1/4 horsepower 
motor to revolve two counter-rotating rotors, each about 1 cm in diameter, spinning them at about 
600 lpm for a power consumption of about 200 watts. The lift is gotten by sinusoidally 
oscillating the rotors up and down and coupling them to the lift platform on their upward stroke. 




112 “How to Extract Energy’ Directly from a Gravitational Field”, “Possibility’ of Contj-ol of the Gravitational 
Mass by Means of Extra-Low Frequencies Radiation ”, and ’’Gravitation and Electromagnetism: Correlation and 
Grand Unification ” 




420 






He obtains about 45 pounds of lift force per horsepower (-55 pounds/kW). He plans by the end 
of the year to have a freely lifting device that would be spun to 1200 rpm with a 1/2 horsepower 
motor drawing 400 watts. He estimates that using this technology a 200 horsepower automobile 
engine would be capable of generating a lift force of about 9000 pounds. 


Kineto-baric Field Propulsion. German scientist Rudolph Zinsser discovered that sawtooth 
electromagnetic waves could be made to push distant objects. He produced a radio tube circuit 
that transmitted 45 megahertz radio waves having a sharp rise and gradual fall. His experiments 
demonstrated that these waves could exert impulses of up to 10 4 to 10 5 dyne seconds, which is 
equivalent to the application of about 1 to 3 ounces of force for a period of one second. He found 
that this force could be generated with an amazingly low input power, the output-force-to-input- 
power ratio surpassing that of conventional propulsion methods by several powers of ten. His 
projections imply a thrust of 1350 pounds force per kilowatt. 


Field Thrust Experiments on Piezoelectrics. James Woodward, a physics professor at Cal 
State Fullerton, is conducting research that indicates that electromagnetic waves can induce 
lifting forces in piezoelectric ceramic media. His ideas are described in a 1994 U.S. patent and in 
a 1990 physics journal article. Woodward has conducted experiments that confirm this thrust 
effect in the audio frequency range (-10,000 Hertz), and his calculations suggest that it may be 
substantially increased at higher frequencies, with optimal performance being obtained in the 
microwave range (0.1 to 10 gigahertz). His work has received some support from Department of 
Energy. 


Tha nks to Dr. Paul LaViolette for permission to cite the summary of antigravity research he 
had presented to U.S. Senate staff (October 2000), and thanks to the many other anonymous 
sources. 




General Bibliography: 


LaViolette, P.A., "An Introduction to Subquantum Kinetics," Parts I, II, and III Inti. J. General 
Systems, vol. 11 (4), 1985, pp. 281-345. 


“Subquantum Kinetics”, Starlane Publications, Alexandria, VA, 1994a. 


"The U.S. Antigravity Squadron," in Electrogravitics Systems, edited by T. Valone, 


Integrity Research Institute, Washington, D.C., 1994b. 


Roshchin, V.V. and S. M. Godin, "An Experimental Investigation of the Physical Effects in a 
Dynamic Magnetic System in a Dynamic Magnetic System," Technical Physics Letters vol. 26 
(12), 2000, pp. 1105-1107. 


Valone, T. (ed.), Electrogravitics Systems, Integrity Research Institute, Washington, D.C., 1994. 


Woodward, J., "A New Experimental Approach to Mach’s Principle and Relativistic 
Gravitation," Foundations of Physics Letters, vol. 3(5), 1990. 


Zinsser, R., "Mechanical Energy from Gravitational Anisotropy," edited by T. Valone. Integrity 
Research Institute, Washington, D.C., 1989. 


Brown, T.T. (http://www.sotcria.com/brown/) 




421 






8.0 SUMMARY REVIEW OF RECENT PRIVATE STUDIES 




The summaries of two recent reports are included here as examples of serious thoughtful 
studies of the UFO phenomena. The first is the Sturrock/Rockefeller Report done in the United 
States and published in 1998. The second is the COMETA report done in France and published 
in 1999. 




8.1 Sturrock/Rockefeller Report on Physical Evidence Related to UFO Reports 


In 1997, a workshop was organized by Dr. Peter Sturrock and the Society of Scientific 
Exploration and funded by Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller to review physical evidence purported to 
be associated with UFO events. This was the first major review of these issues by the scientific 
community in nearly 3 decades and the results were reported in the national media. The abstract 
of the workshop proceedings (which was published in the Journal of Scientific Exploration 1 13 ) is 
reprinted below. This is followed by the Stanford University News Service Press release about 
the workshop proceedings. The full report of the proceedings is available from the Journal of 
Scientific Exploration and was later expanded in a book by Dr. Peter Sturrock in 1 999 1 14 . 


Abstract: 


Physical Evidence Related to UFO Reports: The Proceedings of a Workshop Held at the 


Pocantico Conference center, Tarrytown, New York, September 29 - October 4, 1997 


P. A. Sturrock, et al., Varian 302G, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4060 


The purpose of this four-day workshop was to review purported physical evidence associated 
with UFO reports, with a view to assessing whether the further acquisition and investigation of 
such evidence is likely to help solve the UFO problem, namely the determination of the cause or 
causes of these reports. 


Seven UFO investigators presented a variety of physical evidence that they claimed was 
associated with UFO reports: photographic evidence; luminosity estimates; radar evidence; 
interference with automobile functioning; interference with aircraft equipment; apparent 
gravitational or inertial effects; ground traces; injuries to vegetation; physiological effects on 
witnesses; and analysis of debris. There was in addition a presentation of investigations into 
recurrent phenomena that occur in the Hessdalen Valley in Norway. 


A review panel was composed of nine scientists of diverse expertise and interests. The panel 
offered comments and criticisms concerning the investigations that were presented, and also 
prepared a summary of their overall response, with the following key elements: 




113 Sturrock, P. A. et al. (25 authors). 1998. Physical Evidence Related to UFO Reports: The Proceedings of a 
Workshop Held at the Pocantico Conference center, Tarrytown, New York, September 29 - October 4, 1997. 
Journal of Scientific Exploration 12 (2): 1 79-229. Web site at: 
http://www.scientificexploration.org/jse/articles/ufo_reports/sturrock/toc.html 


114 Sturrock, Peter. A. The UFO Enigma: A New Review of the Physical Evidence. Warner Books, 1999. 416 pp. 




422 






> Concerning the case material presented by the investigators, the panel concluded that 
a few reported incidents may have involved rare but significant phenomena such as 
electrical activity, but there was no convincing evidence pointing to u nk nown 
physical processes or to the involvement of extraterrestrial intelligence. 


> The panel nevertheless concluded that it would be valuable to carefully evaluate UFO 
reports since, whenever there are unexplained observations, there is the possibility 
that scientists will learn something new by studying these observations. However, to 
be credible, such evaluations must take place with a spirit of objectivity and a 
willingness to evaluate rival hypotheses. 


> The best prospect for achieving a meaningful evaluation of relevant hypotheses is 
likely to come from the examination of physical evidence. 


> The chances of a significant advance are considered to be greater now than at the 
time of the Colorado Project that led to the Condon Report thirty years ago, because 
of advances in scientific knowledge and technical capabilities, and in view of the 
example of a modest but effective UFO research project provided by the French 
space agency CNES. 




Stanford University News Service News Release, 6/22/98 
Scientific panel concludes some UFO evidence worthy of study 


In the first independent review of UFO phenomena since 1970, a panel of scientists has 
concluded that some sightings are accompanied by physical evidence that deserves scientific 
study. But the panel was not convinced that any of this evidence points to a violation of known 
natural laws or the involvement of an extraterrestrial intelligence. 


The review was organized and directed by Peter Sturrock, professor of applied physics at 
Stanford University, and supported administratively by the Society for Scientific Exploration, 
which provides a forum for research into unexplained phenomena. The international review panel 
of nine physical scientists responded to presentations by eight investigators of UFO reports, who 
were asked to present their strongest data. Von R. Eshleman, professor emeritus of electrical 
engineering at Stanford, co-chaired the panel. 


Although UFO reports date back 50 years, the information gathered does not prove that either 
u nk nown physical processes or alien technologies are implicated. But it does include a sufficient 
number of intriguing and inexplicable observations, the panel concluded. “It may be valuable to 
carefully evaluate UFO reports to extract information about unusual phenomena currently 
u nk nown to science.” To be credible to the scientific community “such evaluations must take 
place with a spirit of objectivity and a willingness to evaluate rival hypotheses” that has so far 
been lacking, it added. 


This conclusion differs from that reached by Dr. Edward U. Condon, director of the Colorado 
Project, in his 1968 UFO report. He concluded that “further extensive study of UFOs probably 
cannot be justified in the expectation that science will be advanced thereby.” It is very similar, 
however, to the conclusion reached by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics’ 
Kuettner Report issued two years later, which advocated “a continuing, moderate-level [research] 




423 






effort with emphasis on improved data collection by objective means and on high-quality 
scientific analysis.” 


In the current study, the scientific panel focused on incidents involving some form of physical 
evidence, including photographic evidence, radar evidence, vehicle interference, interference with 
aircraft equipment, apparent gravitational or inertial effects, ground traces, injuries to vegetation, 
physiological effects on witnesses, and debris. Of particular concern are reports that UFO 
encounters may be hazardous to people’s health. Some witnesses have reportedly suffered 
radiation-type injuries. These reports led the panel to draw the attention of the medical 
community to the possible health risks involved. 


The scientists found that some of the reported incidents may have been caused by rare natural 
phenomena, such as electrical activity high above thunderstorms or radar ducting (the trapping 
and conducting of radar waves by atmospheric channels). However, the panel found that some of 
the phenomena related to UFOs are not easy to explain in this fashion. 


Further analysis of the evidence presented to the panel is unlikely to shed added light on the 
causes underlying the reports, the scientists said. Most current UFO investigations lack the level 
of rigor required by the scientific community, despite the initiative and dedication of the 
investigators involved. But new data, scientifically acquired and analyzed, could yield useful 
information and advance our understanding of the UFO problem, the panel said. 


The reviewers also made the following observations: 


> The UFO problem is not a simple one, and it is unlikely that there is any simple, 
universal answer. 


> Whenever there are unexplained observations, there is the possibility that scientists 
will learn something new by studying them. 


> Studies should concentrate on cases that include as much independent physical 
evidence as possible. 


> Continuing contact between the UFO community and physical scientists could be 
productive. 


> Institutional support for research in this area is desirable. 


The review panel consisted of Von Eshleman; Thomas Holzer, High Altitude Observatory in 
Boulder, Colo.; Randy Jokipii, professor of planetary science, University of Arizona, Tucson; 
Francois Louange, managing director of Fleximage, Paris, France; H. J. Melosh, professor of 
planetary science, University of Arizona, Tucson; James J. Papike, professor of Earth and 
planetary sciences, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque; Guenther Reitz, German Aerospace 
Center, Institute for Aerospace Medicine, Cologne, Germany; Charles Tolbert, professor of 
astronomy, University of Virginia, Charlottesville; and Bernard Veyret, Bioelectromagnetics 
Laboratory, University of Bordeaux, France. Eshleman and Holzer served as co-chairs of the 
panel. 


The UFO investigators who presented evidence were Richard Haines, Los Altos, Calif.; 
Illobrand von Ludwiger, Germany; Mark Rodeghier, Center for UFO Studies, Chicago; John 
Schuessler, Houston; Erling Strand, Ostfold College, Skjeberg, Norway; Michael Swords, 
professor of natural science, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo; Jacques Vallee, San 
Francisco; and Jean-Jacques Velasco, CNES, Toulouse, France. 


The study was initiated by Laurance S. Rockefeller and supported financially by the LSR 
Fund. 




424 






By David F. Salisbury, e-mail: david.salisbury@stanford.edu 
Stanford University News Service (650) 725-1944 


Related material and the full report can found at the Journal for Scientific Exploration website: 
http://www.ise.com 




8.2 COMETA Report: The French Report on UFOs and Defense 


What follows is an English summary written by French UFO author Gildas Bourdais. The 
full text of the report in English is included in the Appendix in Volume II. The coverage of this 
major study on UFO issues was very poorly covered in the US press with a notable exception of 
Leslie Kean’s article which appeared in the Boston Globe 115 , a copy of which is included in 
Appendix I. 


A short presentation by Gildas Bourdais 


It must be stressed here that this is an independent report, by a private association called 
COMETA. It is summarized with the approval of the authors. To translate and publish the report 
itself, in part or in its integrality, permission should be asked by writing to the administrator of 
the association COMETA, Mr. Michel Algrin, 25, boulevard Saint-Germain, 75005 Paris, France. 


On Friday 16 of July 1999 was published in France an outstanding document, called “UFOs 
and Defense. What must we be prepared for?” (“Les OVNI et la Defense. A quoi doit-on se 
preparer ?”) 


This ninety pages report is the result of an in depth study of UFOs, covering many aspects of 
the subject, especially questions of defense. The study was carried out during several years by an 
independent group of former “auditors” at the very serious Institute of Higher Studies for 
National Defense, or IHEDN (“Institut des hautes Etudes de defense nationale”), and of qualified 
experts from various fields. Before its public release, it has been sent to French President of the 
Republic Jacques Chirac, and to Prime Minister Lionel Jospin. 


This Report is prefaced by General Bernard Norlain, of the Air Force, former Director of 
IHEDN, and it begins with a preamble by Andre Lebeau, former President of the National Center 
for Space Studies (“Centre national d’Etudes spatiales”, CNES), the French equivalent of NASA. 
The group itself, collective author of the report, is an association of experts, many of whom are or 
have been auditors of IHEDN, and it is presided over by General Denis Letty, of the Air Force, 
former auditor (FA) of IHEDN. Its name “COMETA” stands for “Committee for in depth 
studies”. 


A non-exhaustive list of members is given at the beginning, and it is impressive enough. It 
includes: General Bruno Lemoine, of the Air Force (FA of IHEDN), Admiral Marc Merlo (FA of 
IHEDN). Michel Algrin, Doctor in Political Sciences, attorney at law (FA of IHEDN), General 
Pierre Bescond, engineer for armaments (FA of IHEDN), Denis Blancher, Chief National Police 
superintendent at the Ministry of the Interior, Christian Marchal, chief engineer of the national 
“corps des Mines”, Research Director at the “National Office of Aeronautical Research” 




115 Kean, Leslie, UFO theorists gain support abroad, but repression at home. The Sunday Boston Globe, May 21, 
2000, p. E3. (See Appendix I, A1.19) 




425 






(ONERA), General Alain Orszag, Ph.D. in physics, engineer for armaments. 


The committee also expresses its gratitude to outside contributors, among whom : Jean- 
Jacques Velasco, head of SEPRA at CNES, Franaois Louange, President of Fleximage, specialist 
of photo analysis, General Joseph Domange, of the Air Force, general delegate of the Association 
of auditors at IEIEDN. 


General Norlain tells in a short preface how this committee was created. General Letty came 
to see him in March 1995, when he was Director of IEIEDN, to discuss his project of committee 
on UFOs. Norlain assured him of his interest and addressed him to the Association of Auditors 
(AA) of IHEDN, which in turn gave him its support. It is interesting to recall here that, twenty 
years ago, it was a report of that same Association which led to the creation of GEPAN, the first 
unit for UFO study, at CNES. 


As a result, several members of the committee come from the Association of Auditors of 
IHEDN, joined by other experts. Most of them hold, or have held, important functions in 
defense, industry, teaching, research, or various central administrations. General Norlain 
expresses hope that this report will help develop new efforts nationally, and an indispensable 
international cooperation. 


General Letty, as president of COMETA, points to the main theme of the report, which is that 
the accumulation of well documented observations compels us now to consider all hypotheses as 
to the origin of UFOs, especially extraterrestrial hypotheses. 


The committee then presents the contents of the study: 


In a first part, presentation of some remarkable cases, both French and foreign. In a second 
part, they describe the present organization of research in France and abroad, and studies made by 
scientists worldwide which may bring partial explanations, in accordance with known laws of 
physics. The main global explanations are then reviewed, from secret crafts to extraterrestrial 
manifestations. In a third part, will be examined measures to be taken regarding defense, from 
information of pilots, both civilian and military, to strategic, political and religious consequences, 
should the extraterrestrial hypothesis be confirmed. 


Parti: “Facts and Testimonies” 


Many of the cases selected are well known by most researchers, and need only to be 
mentioned here. They are: 


> Testimonies of French pilots. M. Giraud, pilot of MiragelV (1977); Colonel Bose, fighter 
pilot (1976); Air France flight AF 3532 (Jan 1994). 


> Aeronautical cases worldwide. Lakenheath (1956); RB-47 (1957); Teheran (1976); 
Russia (1990); San Carlos de Bariloche (Argentina, 1995). 


> Observations from the ground. Tananarive (1954); observation of a saucer near the 
ground by a French pilot, J. -P. Fartek (1979); observation at close range over a Russian 
missile site, by several witnesses (1989). 


> Close encounters in France. Valensole (Maurice Masse, 1965); Cussac, Cantal (1967); 
Trans-en-Provence (1981); Nancy (so-called case of the “Amaranth” 1982). 


> Counter-examples of elucidated phenomena (two cases). 




426 






Although the selection is limited, it seems to be sufficient to convince an uninformed but open- 
minded reader of the reality of UFOs. 




Part II : “The Present State of Knowledge” 


The second part, entitled “the present state of knowledge” (“Le point des connaissances”), 
begins with a survey of the organization of the official UFO research in France, from the first 
instructions given to the “gendarmerie” in 1974 for the redaction of reports, to the creation of 
GEPAN in 1977, its organization and its results: collection of more than 3,000 reports from the 
gendarmerie, cases studies, statistical analyses. It then surveys agreements passed by GEPAN 
and, later, SEPRA, with the air force and the army, the civilian aviation and other organs, such as 
civilian and military laboratories for the analysis of samples, and photographs. 


Regarding the methods and results, we are reminded of some famous cases (Trans-en- 
Provence, FAmarante), and emphasis is made on the catalogues of cases, notably of pilots 
(Weinstein catalogue), and “radar/visual”, world wide. A historical note appears here with a 
quotation of the famous letter of General Twining, of September 1947, asserting already to the 
reality of UFOs. 


The following chapter, called “hypotheses and attempts at modeling” (“OVNI : hypotheses, 
essais de modelisation”) discusses some models and hypotheses which are under study in several 
countries. Partial simulations have already been made for UFO propulsion, based on 
observations of aspects such as: speed, movements and accelerations, engine failure of nearby 
vehicles, paralysis of witnesses. One model is MFID propulsion, already tested successfully in 
water, and which might be achieved in the atmosphere with superconducting circuits, in a few 
decades. Other studies are briefly mentioned, regarding both atmospheric and space propulsion, 
such as particle beams, antigravity, reliance on planetary and stellar impulsion. The failure of 
land vehicle engines may be explained by microwave radiations. In fact, high power 
hyperfrequency generators are under study in France and other countries. One application is 
microwave weapons. Particle beams, for instance proton beams, which ionize the air and become 
therefore visible, might explain the observation of truncated luminous beams. Microwaves might 
explain body paralysis. 


In the same chapter are next studied “global hypotheses”. Floaxes are rare and easily 
detected. Some non-scientific are put aside, such as conspiracies and manipulation by very secret, 
powerful groups, parapsychic phenomena, collective hallucinations. The hypothesis of secret 
weapons is also regarded as very improbable, the same as “intoxication” at the time of the cold 
war, or just natural phenomena. We are then left with various extraterrestrial hypotheses. One 
version has been developed in France by astronomers Jean-Claude Ribes and Guy Monnet, based 
on the concept of “space islands” of American physicist O’Neill, and it is compatible with present 
day physics. 


The organization of UFO research in the United States, Great Britain and Russia is surveyed 
rapidly. In the United States, the media and the polls show a marked interest and concern of the 
public, but the official position, especially of the Air Force, is still one of denial, more precisely 
that there is no threat to national security. Actually, declassified documents, released under FOIA, 
show another story, one of surveillance of nuclear installations by UFOs, and the continued study 
of UFOs by the military and intelligence agencies. 




427 






The report stresses the importance, in the United States, of private, independent associations. 
It mentions the “Briefing Document. Best available evidence” sent in 1995 to a thousand 
personalities worldwide, and the Sturrock workshop in 1997, both sponsored by Laurance 
Rockefeller. The “Briefing Document” has obviously been welcomed by the authors of the 
COMETA report. The committee also notes the public emergence of alleged insiders such as 
Colonel Philip Corso, and considers that his testimony may be partly significant as to the real 
situation in that country, in spite of many critics. 


The report describes briefly the situation in Great Britain, with a special mention for Nick 
Pope, and poses the question of the possible existence of secret studies pursued jointly with 
American services. It mentions as well research in Russia, and the release of some information, 
notably by the KGB in 1991. 


Part III: UFOs and Defense 


The third part, “UFOs and Defense” (“Les OVNI et la defense”), states that, if it is true that 
no hostile action has been proved yet, at least some actions of “intimidation” have been recorded 
in France (case of the Mirage IV for instance). Since the extraterrestrial origin of UFOs cannot 
be ruled out, it is therefore necessary to study the consequences of that hypothesis at the strategic 
level, but also political, religious and media/public information levels. 


The first chapter of Part III is devoted to prospective strategies (“Prospectives strategiques”) 
and it begins with fundamental questions: “What if extraterrestrials? What intentions and what 
strategy can we deduce from their behavior?” 


Such questions open a more controversial part of the report. Possible motivations of 
extraterrestrial visitors are explored here, such as protection of planet Earth against the dangers of 
nuclear war, suggested for instance by repeated flying over nuclear missile sites. 


The committee then ponders the possible repercussion on the behavior, official or not, of 
different states, and focuses on the possibility of secret, privileged contacts which might be 
“attributed to the United States”. The attitude of the U.S. is seen as “most strange” since the 1947 
wave and the Roswell event. Since that time, a policy of increasing secrecy seems to have been 
applied, which might be explained by the protection at all cost of military technological 
superiority to be acquired from the study of UFOs. 


Next, the report tackles the question: “What measures must we take now?” At the least, 
whatever the nature of UFOs, they impose “critical vigilance”, in particular regarding the risk of 
“destabilizing manipulations”. A kind of “cosmic vigilance” should be applied by the elites, 
nationally and internationally, in order to prevent any shocking surprise, erroneous interpretation 
and hostile manipulation. 


Nationally, COMETA urges the strengthening of SEPRA, and recommends the creation of a 
cell at the highest level of government, entrusted with the development of hypotheses, strategy, 
and preparation of cooperation agreements with European and other foreign countries. A further 
step would be that European states and the European Union undertake diplomatic action toward 
the Unites States within the framework of political and strategic alliances. 


A key question of the report is “What situations must we be prepared for?” It mentions such 
situations as: extraterrestrial move for official contact; discovery of a UFO/alien base on the 




428 






territory or in Europe; invasion (deemed improbable) and localized or massive attack; 
manipulation or deliberate disinformation aiming at destabilizing other states. 


COMETA devotes special attention to “aeronautical implications,” with detailed 
recommendations aimed at various personnel, such as air staffs, controllers, weathermen and 
engineers. It also makes recommendations at the scientific and technical levels, aimed at 
developing research, with potential benefits for defense and industry. 


The report further explores the political and religious implications of UFOs, using as a model 
the perspective of our own exploration of space: how would we do it, how would we handle 
contacts with less advanced civilizations? 


Such an approach is not new to the well-informed readers of the abundant ufological 
literature, but it has a special value here, being treated seriously at such a level. The 
media/publicity implications are not forgotten, with the problems of disinformation, fear of 
ridicule, and manipulation by certain groups. 


In its conclusion, COMETA claims that the physical reality of UFOs, under control of 
intelligent beings, is “quasi certain”. Only one hypothesis takes into account the available data: 
the hypothesis of extraterrestrial visitors. This hypothesis is of course unproved, but has far- 
reaching consequences. The goals of these alleged visitors remain u nk nown but must be the 
subject of speculations and prospective scenarios. 


In its final recommendations, it stresses again the need to: 


1 . Inform all decision-makers and persons in position of responsibility; 


2. Reinforce means of investigation and study at SEPRA; 


3. Have UFO detection taken into account by agencies engaged in of space surveillance; 


4. Create a strategic cell at the highest state level; 


5. Undertake diplomatic action toward the Unites States for cooperation on this “capital 


question”; 


6. Study measures which might be necessary in case of emergencies. 


Finally, this document is accompanied by seven interesting annexes which are worth reading 
even by seasoned ufologists: 


1 . Radar detection in France 


2. Observations by astronomers 


3. Life in the Universe 


4. Colonization of space 


5. The Roswell case - The disinformation (an interesting text which will be criticized 
by some readers, and welcomed by others, including myself) 


6. Antiquity of the UFO phenomenon. Elements for a chronology 


7. Reflection on various psychological, sociological and political aspects of the UFO 
phenomenon. 


The importance of this report should not be missed by all informed ufologists around the 
world, considering not only its contents but the personality of its authors, and in spite of critics 
which may be addressed to it. In fact, some shaip critics have been made soon after the release of 
the report, on the Internet, and in the French press with an article by sociologist Pierre Lagrange 
curiously denouncing an operation of disinformation by way of ridiculing the subject (“Liberation 




429 






of July 21, 1999). Let’s hope that the present summary will help clarify the debate. 
Gildas Bourdais 




9.0 APPENDIX AI. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS 
RELATED TO UFOs 


9.1 Summary Review of Government Documents 


The documents included here in Appendix I are only those referenced in the text of this 
document and were selected to: 1) specifically support sightings reports or 2) support specific 
points in the discussion. Many important US Government UFO documents that we have 
collected (well over 1000 pages) are not in this briefing summary since including all such 
documents would have been impractical. Web sites such as that run by the Black Vault 116 have 
available many thousands of pages of government documents relating to UFO issues (mostly 
obtained from the government through FOIA, the Freedom of Information Act 117 ). Although 
many of the documents may be difficult to read, the shaip-eyed reader will quickly realize the 
extent of the government’s and the military’s deep interest and involvement in UFO issues. Not 
only is their continued interest obvious, but also their continued desire to keep the information 
from the public through a combination of secrecy, and deliberate misinformation and 
disinformation (this process was discussed in the position paper entitled: “Unacknowledged”). 


It should be noted that for nearly every reported observation, there are a slew of 
pronouncements by “experts” and officials dismissing the observation. However, all these 
statements are basically invalidated by a single phenomenon: the continued action of our 
government to classify documents such as those in the appendices, as secret, and to maintain that 
secrecy up to and in some cases in the face of the unprecedented power of the Freedom of 
Information Act. If there were nothing to these sightings, there would be no need for secrecy! 


An excellent example of government agency duplicity about their interest in UFOs is 
described by John Greenewald on the BlackVault web site 118 in which he quotes the following 
Air Force standard position statement, quoted from a letter he received from the Air Force: 


Regarding UFO/UAO phenomenon, we have no documentation, archived or otherwise, 
regarding this type phenomenon and have not documented this type of information or 
maintained a database on same since the official closing of “Project Blue Book 119 ” in 1969. 


From the evidence gathered here we know that the Air Force did have interest in UFOs prior 
to the closing of “Project Blue Book” since Air Force Regulation AFR 200-2 120 (1954) describes 




116 Web site at: http://www.blackvault.com 


117 FOIA-Freedom of Information Act. Set up by Congress in XXXX to allow citizens to obtain xxxxxxxx 
,IS Web site at: http://www.blackvault.com 


119 Project Blue Book was an Air Force sponsored research project to collect and investigate UFO sightings from 
March, 1952 to December, 1969 and followed its predecessors, Projects Sign and Gmdge which had similar 
tasks. 


120 See Appendix AI (Document A1.20). ). Full copy in PDF format is available on the AFDPO web site at: 
h ttp://afpubs. hq.af.mil 




430 






in detail how to report Unidentified Flying Objects, including their description. Note that the 
position statement above implies there is no present interest in UFOs. Flowever, the present Air 
Force Manual on Operational Reporting (AFMAN 10-206), dated March 7, 2000, describes 
CIRVIS (Communications Instructions for Reporting Vital Intelligence Sightings) reporting 
procedures which in section 5. 7. 3. 3 specify “Unidentified Flying Objects,” which are listed 
separately from unidentified aircraft (section 5.7.3. 1). These reports are to be submitted to the 
Commander in Chief at NORAD Headquarters. 


Documents from the mid-1970s discussed in the section (6.7) on Air Command Base 
overflights show the intense interest at NORAD in the UFO phenomenon at that time, which 
appears to continue to this day. 


9.2 Appendix 1.1: List of Descriptions of Government Documents Related to UFOs 


AI.l. To: The Controller of Telecommunications 


From: Wilber B. Smith, Senior Radio Engineer - Department of Transportation 
Date: November 21, 1950 


Re: Top Secret Memorandum on geomagnetic research project, including the information 
obtained through the Canadian Embassy that UFO subject is classified in US higher 
than the H bomb and the US assessment that "flying saucers exist". 


AI.2. To: Mr. Shlomo Amon 


From: Senator Barry Goldwater 
Date: March 28, 1975 


Re: UFOS. Goldwater unable to find out what was stored in specific building at 
Wright Patterson AFB as it was classified above Top Secret. 


AI.3. To: Major Donald E. Keyhoe, Director National Investigation Committee on Aerial 
Phenomena 


From: William Leet, USAF 
Date: 11 March 1958 


Re: Reports of several personal UFO sightings and offer to help Keyhoe and NICAP. 


AI.4. To: Commanding Officer, Air Transport Squadron 


From: Graham E. Bethune and others - Multiple reports of same event 
Date: 10 February 1951 


Re: Sighting of UFO by aircraft crew. Object appeared to be circular, bright orange-red 
disc, approaching at "very great, undeterminable speed." 


AI.5. NORAD Log 


Date: November 7, 8, 9, 1975 


Re: Log entries by senior director of 24th NORAD Region describing UFO sightings at 
Malmstrom Air Force Base, MT. 


AI.6. Extracts NORAD Command Director’s Log 
Date: 29 October 1975 - 23 November 1975 
Re: Multiple reports of sightings 


AI.7. Directory of Databases 
From: Air Force 
Date: beginning 1971 




431 






Re: NORAD Unknown Track Reporting System (NUTR) 


AI.8. Report, of Sighting 


From: National Military Command Center, J.B. Morin, Rear Admiral, USN 
Date: 21 January 1976 


Re: UFOs near flight line at Cannon AFB, NM; 25 yards in diameter; gold or silver in 
color with blue light on top, etc. 


AI.9. To: Memorandum for Record 


From: National Military Command Center, L.J. LeBlanc, Jr - Deputy Director for 
Operations 
Date: 30 July 1976 


Re: Sightings at Fort Ritchie, MD - July 30, 1976 


AI.10. To: Multiple Distribution 


From: Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Date: September 1976 


Re: Detailed report of sightings of UFOs_in Tehran, Iran - 19 September 1976 


AI.ll. Article: "Now You See It, Now You Don’t" 


From: Captain Henry S. Shields, HQ USAF Date: Declassified 4 December 1981 
Re: Episode reported by two F-4 Phantom crews of Imperial Iranian Air Force in late 
1976. 


AI. 12. Sighting Report 


From: Charles I. Halt, Lt. Col, USAF - Deputy Base Commander 
Date: 13 January 1981 


Re: Unexplained lights in woods outside RAF Woodbridge, trace landing marks found on 
ground the next day, numerous witnesses 


AI. 13. Inspection and Surveillance Record - Incident Report 
From: Jack Wright, FAA 
Date: November 17, 1986 


Re: Report and interview of Captain Terauchi and crew of JAL #1628 on being followed 
by a UFO during flight approaching Anchorage, AK 


AI. 14. Personnel Statement - Federal Aviation Administration 
From: Carl E. Henley, Air Traffic Control Specialist 
Date: January 6, 1987 


Re: UFO radar and visual sighting report - Anchorage - JAL #1628 


AI. 15. Information Alert Report 


From: Fra nk lin L. Cunningham 
Date: December 31, 1986 


Re: Sighting by crew of JAL #1628 for over 350 miles, recorded on onboard color radar 
USAF Elmendorf AFB showed on ATC radar. 


AI. 16. To: Multiple distribution 


From: Joint Staff, Washington, DC 
Date: March 1990 




432 






Re: Reports of UFO Sightings in Belgium including summary by Col. DeBrouwer. 
Phenomenon cannot be explained by Belgian Air Force. 


A1.17. Paris Match article - authorized publication of documents from the Belgian Ministry of 
Defense 


Date: March 30 and 31, 1990 


Re: Details regarding encounters between UFOs and Belgian Air Force including photos 
of radar screen sighting of UFO. 


Al. 18. USA Today newspaper article “Arizonans say the truth about UFO is out there” 


Written by: Richard Price 
Date: June 18, 1997 


A1.19. Boston Globe article on the French COMETA Report entitled: “UFO theorists gain 
support abroad, but repression at home” 


Written by: Leslie Kean 
Date: May 21, 2000 


AI.20. Department of Air Force Document (1954) 


From: USAF Chief of Staff, General Nathan F. Twining 
Date: 12 August 1954 


Re: Full details regarding reporting procedures of UFOs for the Air Force. 


A1.2 1 . Department of Air Force Manual 1 0-206 ( Operational Reporting) 


From: Secretary of the Air Force 
Date: March 7, 2000 


Re: Complete details on procedures for CIVUS reporting (Communications Instructions 
for Reporting Vital Intelligence Sightings). Full copy in PDF format is available on 
the AFDPO web site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil. 




433 






All 






434 






a f“ ite - A ." p y u°“ia Both hoots d ta i>- 


n — lt --’ " 1 *' xl “h® s-Et-mg3 Oi unidentified objects cr.d both boots claim tba* 
riyins objects were of extra-terrestrial origin and might well be space shiu 
frea another planet. Scully claimed that the preliminary cV'diss of 
or.s saucer which foil Into the hands of the Unltad States Govol-aaent 
Indicated that they operated on sene hitherto unknown mcgac-tlc 
princip3.es. It appeared to me that our ov/n wort in geo-aa gactlcs 
itieht well he the linkage between our technology end the technology ~ 


by which the saucers ere designed end operated. If it is assumed that 
our geo-magnctic invest! getions aro in tho right direction, the theory 


operation of tho caucers bccor.es quite straight! orvmrd w 4 tU ell — 


obsorvea features explained qualitatively and quantitatively^ 


_ _ J 1 132,10 filecraat enquiries through the Canadian Ihibasay - 


s b®-i in Washington who v/are eblo to obtain for me the follow 4 ns 
information: 


a. The natter is the most highly classified subject in ths Unltod 
States Government, rating higher oven than the H-bcrob. 


b. Hying saucers exist. — 


c * Their nodus operanci is unknown but concentrated effort is being 


cade by a snail group headed by Doctor Vanaevar Bush. “ 


d. The entire natter is considered by tho United States authorities 


to bo of treacsndouB significance. — 


I_vss further informed that the United States authorities* ere invecdlratlnr 
nxong quits a nunoer of lines which might possibly bu related to the caucei--— 
phenomena end I gather that they are not doing too wall sinci 
thoy indicated what if Canada is doing anything at all in geo-magnetics t>-y 
would welcome a discussion v-ith suitably accredited Canadians. _ 


Uhile I as not yet in & position to say that we hove solved, 
even the first problems in geo-magnetic energy release, I feel that the 
correlation between our basic theory and the available information on 
saucers checks too closely to ba more coincidence. It is my honsst ooinion 
that wo aro on the right tract end are fairly close to at least some of tho 
answers. — 


t Urlght, Defence Eosearch 5oard liaison officer at tho 


Canadian Sahassy in. Usshingtcn, was extremely anxious for me to got in touch - 
T^.th i/OCwor Solandt, Chairman of the Dofcnce Research Eoard, to discuss with 
h.n future investigations along the lin3 of geo -magnetic energy release. 


I do not feel that we'havo aa yet sufficient data to place before Defence “ 
Research Board which would enable a program to os initiated within that 
organization, but I do feel that further research is necessary and I would 
prefer to ooo it done within the frame work of our cm organization with ~ 
of course, full co-operation and exchange of information with other 
interested bodies. 




_ _ ^ discussed this matter fully with Doctor Solandt, Chairman of 


t *;j ac2 RsEe “rcb Board, on November 2Cth and placed before him as much 
-niCmetioa as I have been eble to gather to date. Doctor Soleadt egr?*^ 
• 70r -' cn Soo-magnetlc. energy ehculd go forward as rapidly es possible 




435 






33 


\ 








ana oirerea I UxJ. co-opore uion or ni3 xjoarc: xu proviuing ±*iDor«:x.ory racill’ties 
acquisition or necessary items of equipment, and specialised personnel for 
incidental work in the project. T indicated to Doctor Solcnct that \-e would 
prefer to keep the project within the Department of Transport for tha time 
being until v;e hare obtained sufficient information to permit a coaplota 
assessment of the valua of the work. 




It is therefore recommended that a FHOJECT be sot up within 
the franc work cf this Section to study this problem and that the work be 
carried on a part tine basis until such tine as sufficient tangible results 
can bo seen to warrant more definitive action. Cost of tbo program, in lt 3 
initial stages are expectod to be les3 than a few hundred dollars and can 
be carried by our r.adio Standards Lab appropriation. 


Attached hereto is a draft of t6ims of reference for such a 
project which, if authorized, will enable us to proceed Pith this research 






. 436 - 




436 






AI.2 






437 










Major Donald E. KoyU -, Director 
National Investigat— _ Committee 
on Aerial Phononiena 
Washington, D. C. 


Dear Major Keyhoe: 




Long before your book, "Flying Sauc 
vas published, my B-17 and ay crew and I Wv , 
b v g "T o o Fighter" , a snail aBSer^Qlsc,. all 
Klagenrurt, Austria to tKe'Xd'f la't lc Sen. ~ 
a~ ,r lone"wol"f ,r_ El a s ion at night , ns I recall 
194V in the 15th Air Force, 5th Wing, 2nd 1; 
intelligence officer who debriefed us stat- 
new Car man" fighter' but coul <f~h o€~ explain wr . 
at us' or .“ if it waV'reporting our heading, 
speed, why vo did not receive anti-aircraft 




sr. Are Real" , 
ro k ept company 
T,~e way .from 
hii occurred on 
, in Dsnaabor,. 
■ 0 “ ; w Group . The 
d that it was a 
% i t did not fire 
altitude and air- 
. firo. 




On about 1J Octob er 1952, vhile I was copilot on a 
C-5V Troop Carrier mission out of T achika vn end heading 
South toward bshima' a t”’dui k I noticed in who strato-cumu- 
lus formation Westward what appeared to be a perfectly 
round cloud. Aft er watching it for about u minute, and 
deciding it wasn’t a cloud, I called, it .to., the attention, 
of. the pilot and eng ineer. The pilot was intent upon his 
flight" plan but the engineer got several good glimpses of 
the object. Seven minutes after I_ first uzv it, it took 
an elliptical shape and sped off 'to t he W»; • disappea ring 
within a few seconds, toward Mount Thijl. 




While atatloned at McClellan AFB near Sacr amento , 
California from J uly, 1955 to Decem ber. 1957. 1 noticed a 
tromendous number of lumino us b l ue-j reen o bj e cts JEjrar, s - 
eending' the" i'lry from Twrizon tohorizon'ln’ an " instant . On 
arTTCOC Diialbn orie n f ght "oTf the ' CalTfo rn i*. Co a"st I End 
the radio operator report such an observation. Ho, e_.d 
a day or two later one of our intelligence offficers, told 
me that the same object was reported by an airline pilot. 




As a crusader for truth I believe that 2 understand 
the difficulties under which you -and your associates labor, 
and I would like to offer my services. I am coming to Wash- 
ington soon for an appointment with Senator Cooper and if it 
is not inconvenient vould lika an appoint_ent with you. I 
am enclosing a copy of Fora 57 for your information. 








438 






UNCLAS31F ISO PER £X£C UTIVE ORDER 12.356, 
Sy UfC I'AHS, Date 


CONFIDENTIAL 




Section 3.3, A'A/ b 




AI.4 




/ / ' 




n TTT LOGISTIC AIR nNC, AlLAjrriC/COirriMCTTAL 
AIR TRAlSfOKT SQ04DR0X OKS 
ff. S. IAY4L AIX 3T1TI0* 


Ptrrrmrr UTXJt, URUAXD 


10 fabniury 1951 




ccinBMTiu 


EMOXAJIXJ* JOKRT t# Co— rvMny OW^r, Air Transport Sqnadro. 
feiKj t la port of Tnurual lighting oo Jllfht 125/9 fabmary 1951 


I, oi+hf x. iranarr, — copilot «. m*t 125 rio. ieoW 


♦/, i*t »1 Air 3 t*tio«, Argontia oo the 10 th of Ibbruary 1951 * At 0055 Z Z 


i gomd a_rvd ob».rT*d tho following objaetl 


Ihllo nr l "f la tho loft mt ot 10,000 foot an o tmo oooroo 
, * 230 darrH< ot o pooltloo of 49-50 forth 50-03 foot, I ohoorrod o *lo* of 
l^fht belowtho horlioo ohoot 1,000 to 1,500 foot obeaw tho w tor. I to 
bearing woe aboot 2 0'Clock. Thoro oo> oo crrorcoot, thoro n« o tl^lQno- 
, ,r»nt group of aeud. ot .boot 2,000 foot altitude. Aftor axaaing foXGICp ? 


L. obj.et for 40 to 50 *aeond. I eall.d it to tho .tl.nticn of Lloutonoot 
iriGDCC la tho rlffat hood acat. It ni uad.r tho thin .cud. ot roughly 30 
1 40 olios i«7. I naked -What in it, n nhlp lighted up or aclty, I. know 
1 . ooa't bo a city banana, o* nr* ormr 250 allot «t.* •* both ohoorrod It* 


courwe and aotloo for about 4 or 5 alnutaa boforo calling It to tb* attontloa 
c tho otharcroo aaabara. It* flrat glam aaa a dull yollo*. Wo *ora oo an 
i-torcoping courwo. Suddenly Ita anfla of attack ehan£d,- lta altltudo and 
•la* incraaaod a* though It* apaod **» in arooaa of 1,000 alloa par hoar. I 
e o#od in *o fa»t that tho flrat reeling •* _ 


t — La tiao lta angle chao«*d and tha color changed. It 


nod rodlah orange oo lta prlaitar It rwroreed lta couree aft tripled it* apood 
s til It m laat aoa n dinnopanfing oror tha horiaon. 


a 1 ni.l.ndiag di.tene. orer outer It 1 . alao.t ^poaalbl. to ooti~t» ^Vawater “ 
also, dlatnnoo and ap~d. A rough o.tlaat* would bo at lw*nO 00 * 
o ir 1,000 ail.* par hour In .p-ed and a? -.roaebod *ithin< 2 idU^ ofth* aircraft. 


_ - < (^c> f^ezrT - ~T/-lch r-<~euj ~ 


v-'/TT/e? A/=re7Z. offr/t/tju^c, 4 of // ■ 


r£°'-'hX~ Mo* Yf e /a/Grahaa X. ntTHUHX 


Lt, V. 3 . faral leeorr* 


u s AA i y //V r<n u G iTo'c?' j y$-/ 




Vo S tC-A/a 7-w/i.tr 


Vl A/>S 


A SCVT/fjuar /UciSrC-'C ■ 
Vv/* s /&-ryfc& 




naosexx ( 4 ) 




- 439 - 




0 \ 




439 






... 7^*3® v • • UNC055tFT 


7-f- FLEET XCXilsflC^AIElUrSG , HLAHTXC/ C ONTETENTAL - 
rrr& rriQ-on-Ofl* ertTranPnW- .nSKr"^’ 




w 




, j.;=;iDNCLA 55 It^^v- ..-■* •••-. 


- — ’*. ^ ».• # . . ,•• -V-.m- ^•' , 1. ^ ' Q!‘‘ * • t ’/ * - t -* ", ; * "* 


L»r*' -' , t AAM ''llw ^TVcn •nftT’t 3 .Wfj T*QH 0 N 2 




V.-V? a- -* 




S?>- : At OOJS^oiil^EaHruai^ 30 nrLn« ^ 


- -• -'bnabove . an^eyB- witness. to- ‘an unusual, ^ing^of an nn-^ . ^ 


: = ^identified- objecrfciS: This occurrence^ .took place at ^ xa ^^ t el^.49-5., ■ • •■:. ( 


-and 50-03 W .which i'a approximately . 200 miles north, east of Argentia-, 


- -■ '^eS^ExSS. S 10,000 feet v altitole cruising on r&m course • - 


Sjf -about 230° ‘at time of incident.;: •.• V^.r- * . • ' 


-•'• At time of ' sighting iVas occupying the right hind ( Co P 11 °^^ at ’ and 7 


- v.Jh. Taft hand (Pilots) aeafe-van'oceupied by Id^tog nt BST aUrin. 


- y W? ■ My Cfi5recSlIe4"tr.toe--oeeiJrireac»-4^1frw5E^^* vh°— 


’: .'’aaksd na to loohatrah unusual flight which was to my 
^Sthat there was. -^glowing flight -beneath a thin layer, of 


"'i beneath usl.-.Thisr.li^t.vas to my right and down at anangle * 


.'-. This object appealed to lie on. the', surface ax^J^a thxoving & 


'~. : orange glare through the dead deck.. It appeared to be vexy la ^ e . 1 


.Vat: first thougbtltoat’ it could be a large . ship OTmpletely illuminated. .. t 


Mr. BSXHDHB and-I watcfaeditbe object for several- -minutes in trying^to- 
_-' da t er^EeftaTna tare We than called out Navigator, Lieutenant N. J. ?. 


KDGER to the eoc^dt; to scrutinize the obj set and render his opinion as to ^ 


.£ -.its nature* - * • • '• "•■ 


- ■ M w. »» &*? £***' 


:.throu-h the olood: la^r.eni lt.then beceoe. qaite.hl'id - ~_J 


l aTO „ /.i^. ^ -araulnr Vl t ttea lt ‘ }±ir 


”■ '•-oSIr^dle. This ^ ihbject^a^jeared'toTSoolimhing and moving it attoumendous 


aS it appeared to-to^-a'mora or. less collision eourseuito • 


/aircraft... Wharrit-appoared -that -there ■ was- a.' poaa iM lity o 
■ «■»•■* o^V—xnnAM-pecl' to make" ff/ 180 ° _ tni 2 i. and disapoeared over the honzon a 
=• 'SjJSySSf 'SS toe coura^of events MiC A. L. JONES had come to 
Sr^<r^ : h?Sf . ted»:th. dtx.cU.nef the.bj.et »t It. yeet 
out of sight .in- a- short period of time. 




Due to the fact that this object was seenover JJjJ? 


be most dSbficult for me to estimate speed, ^ £emendous and the 


it during ths\ coux*3b. of even'cav Sewer r, t _ close 


S-e™ at 300 fwt In diameter. The oo.ject ves close 


aqpTiprrv co— sae^fiixi ooeerre* - i*t ol 3 &z^t 7 ’» _ 


- ' vt-tt,— *■» a celt- 1 PT) 




' “SSI f 








441 








442 


















•J’LEKT Tnr.T.qTTr: a-tt? BTHn; ■ 


Vr^gJfilB TRAifSPOHr^SqUADfiQH QHK'.V, \ i~ V. _ < • 




IfNCXASSIBSQ 




. ... ■ .'• ;. • •. % ; X: 


■>■' Vv 'V 1 -* • ~‘S •'■ • • ' .• .*,• ** *“ • 


Officer,. Air’ Transport Squadron ONE 








443 








m 




Bnceassjeied.' 




0. 




:-i.'e. .o--ff-^ x L i "t-tMl : 


— . HHSORANDUM 




FLEET LOGISTIC AIR VETO, ATLANTIC / C ORTINSHTAL 
• ■’ •• AIR transport: SQUADRON CNB ’ 


. . : .v £v- U. S. HAVAL AIR STATION 


’ PATUXENT RIVER, MARILAHD • ' 




10 February 1951 




ESPORT^.to 'CaaBsanding Officer, . Air Transport Squadron OKS 


, >.^rnA- ' t-'.’- '• ” *. ••iVJft’. *• — . 


rtfsibic' Report ofittmansLl Sighting- (M. Flight 125/9 February 1951 ‘ 


' ^r-. ». * ~ ’ C* ■ " • ‘.V *"'• 


. S&V:’Qn February 10^.i951j anroute from KefLavik; Iceland- to Argentia, New— 
.'foundland a 3 a crew member on flight 125 a strange sight was witnessed by 
Lieutenant KUICDon- and Lieutenant BETHUHE who were piloting the aircraft 
.. at. the tine. I had left the cockpit approximately 1 hour prior to this 
• sighting. The time." of ■ the sighting wan 005 5 and the position of the 


aircraft was 49°-50B- Lat add 50-03W.Logitude. I was called to the cockpit 
by Lieutenant KINGDQ1I to witness this scene... ' ’’ 


• - • rirt v 'V f • ■ 


“-j? VheffL first' saw the sight it was .far away froa us and rapidly disappearing 
over the horizon.;' Not being too familiar with flying in ■ this particular 
.. a rea. 1 my first impression was the celestial setting of the moon and the fact 
thart s tr a tus layers were present to : causa the bright red glow and the halo 
effect that was apparent. ■' • 




but 


Th« 




I did not witness the entire proceedings a3 "Sid acme of the other pilots, 
from what little I did see of it .this was the impression I received, 
objedt disappeared 1 ' on a true course -of- appr oxima tely 290°. 


-■■■■SI- * *".■•" 








— s " 




John. wkt'kH: 


, -ir' I*Ty- S*. ~®wy* 
















— a v 




ENCLOSURE (5) 




- 444 - 




DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAH INTER Y. 4 




444 














--imCnASSIHIHD ; 








' . FLEET ^LOGISTIC .AI2 VXEG, ATLiin^/CmfTIMErtlL 






February 1951 




jy r' j ~ V^r^iTs?;- • •• 


■ 2 rj ■ ■ l / • _ • • _ . * ■ ■ > . ■ l n j A\m- 




i^^^ aKDOM ee2^ bi|^ 0Ng .: 






■ ’>«■ 




-the ri T~«fe ~ r a < n~ g« t^ h ■rnT- t.h « ■ f 1 rat 5| or 6 houra_ After being 


VfreUWed of tha^uafch-by' Eaed/.K.' Ei ,. ALAN I- went - ® ft in .the" Passenger 
f. rtgrraw m niit . and. ,v ent • to sleep..' . After being asleep for awhile I heard. 


L* someone say something a boat an object or something to the starboard of *he 
£ aircraft. I raised, ay head, to the window and saw a round object which to 
;: was-" round with a : color of fire-.— I didn't see it only 




..i^ as-- looked like it was-j 




SHIEVER, 


KAVT 






7 




r * 


' 4 , 


^ '* * • . 


‘ .-I**.*-*.. * 


• C. «£. p.>OS 


' ■ • 


■•■•.•$**.** ■ • ■ 
t ViTf.': 


--..Uqjivi-ij >. 




-*V- ' 


7 * ■ •* ' ' ' V*— - *• * , 


.. ..f'rtb&tn,: :~iw - ' 5 >• . «.» . — • 




.Z-iW*-- ■ ■■'&&&*!■:■„ - ’• .r- ' • •• : ■ ■ 


•• i«srai v ; • .. ’i® atr ■""• •. . -.t-4 • 


•..■tiiagr. 


,, Jivf A .-; ■ ... SNCLOSOrffi (6) 


. " ‘ * *' -I*". *’ • . 








\; 




445 - 




TTi 




(V^ 




445 






UNCLASSIFIED- 








FLEET. LOGISTIC AIR WING, ATLANTIC/CONTINESTAL 
.. ' AIR TRANSPORT- SQUAtfR5B\OHE • . 


> '.ITj- ’U. S. HAVAIilAIR STATION 
PATUXENT' BIVZR, MARYLAND '' 


-itrrv • • * • • 




fi >,• • 




'I® February 1951 




*' • • ‘.V V.-— ./-• - ‘ - v - • , .■ • 


-• r MH50HARDTM REP0R3ljto^COBBBaiiding Officer, Air .Transport Squadron OlfE 


. v-rigc, ■*... 't -v.- y- -. v -. ' 


Report of . Omijmal . Sighting on -Flight 125/9 Febroary 1951 


J ” I Uo were off the- coast of Newfoundland. about 2 hours on flight 125 frcn 
Iceland on the 9th of -February 1951, when I went forward to find out if 
the pilota or crew-. would lUce^any ooffee, soup, or etu.~ When I entered 
tha cocfoif",compartaeiit 'the co— pilot called my attention to a light a 
about- 2 O' Clock" and . alightlyNlower than ns- It looked very much like an 
eclipse of the sun, « which waa about three-fourths of total eclipse, 


■ in- size, shape, and "color, btft the speed of the light mnst have been at 
' least 520 knots if not more/ The distance the light seemed to be- was 
from three-quarters to a mile away. At that time Mr. JONES came forward 
and X went aft 'with.. the passengers. . . - - . . ’ • 




* / s/ Gerald R. DANIELS 
AE3, ■ 0. S. Navy. 














ENCLOSURE (7) 


- 446 - 


riMPT'Accicir-n 






446 








ppfiOVED I JUKE IS a 




AIR .I^ELLIGENCE I^ORM'A^ {<\3 




» rnu 


■' 1 mi ■■■ inn iwme 


/. . 


. - -A ' ”... 


, Dir/lnt, Hq NSAC • . 


12-4-51 ' . 


**** ; fag* 


2 «op J2 _ m 


t : : . •• 




1 




1. Th 9 following described -unidentified aircraft/ object was sighted off the 
obaet of Newfoundland by HATS Navy C-54 crew. ' * . 


a. Originally sighted as a single, heavy, yellowish light., simUar in 
appearance to that of a city. As object approached observing aircraft, it grew 
very bright and large, and appeared to be semiroircular in shape. -Sear. aircraft,_ 
it did a 160° turn and was last seen ae a snail ball disappearing’ over the horizc 
The speed was "terrific" and the size "tremendpua" to quote observers, (The dif- 
ference in size ."between the time it was first seen and last seen as a small.’ ball _ 
going over the horizoni was described V 3 tremendous, at least 100 tines larger, ( 


• b_._J.ighted ht 00552 on 10 February 1951 anc: remained -visible- for approx?* 


nately-7 or 8 minutes. . £*,"0 -fitU \ 


c. Visually observed from MATS Navy C-54 #6=01 of VR-1’ Squadron based at 
Patuxent, Maryland, flying at 10,000 feet altitude, 172 knots air speed, 225 tru 
course* •* 4 


d. Observing aircjraft was at 49° 50’ K 50° 30'_Tf at the time of observa-- 
tion. Object appeared ne^r the water's surface at approximately a 45° down?»ard 
angle from 'the observing'/a ire raft SraTl^iarEooi-a’ trur-eoiirse of approximate} 
125°. Cpon approaching Observing aircraft, it executed a sudden turn a pnr-rr' - , n \1 = 
190° and disappeared very rapidly over the horizon. _ 


e Object sighted by 5 ere ■» ns.T.fcehs , listed below, of the above aircri*- 1 '-, 
who are all experienced Sort*. Atlantic fliers. Sander Traffic Control reports no 
other aircraft known to be in the Vicinity at time of sighting. All 5 ooservers 
agree on facts as stated, bUlTthere has been no confirmation’ from other sourcos. - 
Believe 0-3 appropriate. -w 




Lt Fred Kf. Kingdan - 1.733 
Lt-A. L. Jones - 39109a 
Lt 0. E. Eethune - 2S90S5 
Lt N. 0. 9. Xoger - 305873 
Lt. J. M. Uever - 263836 




7339o(/first to aaajfcject)) ’ 
5 ^ 




f. "ieathor clear, visibility from 15 mi-lea to unlimited, no other v.-eath*-'- 
inf ormatiorr a-mdrlablo. „ >. • 


k. No unusual aetoorolojical activity known to exist and having any i=-J 
[/fluence on the sighting. This object oculd not have been a ccziet as the object 
[was bala’-e and between the aircraft and ocean. — _ 


fl. No physical evidence available. 


i. 5s interception action taken. * — 


2. The above information was for-arded fren thisjleadquarters_ to Headquarters 


- 447 - 




447 






^ ift»ar tment of the- air force :j. 


HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE: 
* ■ “WASHINGTON ZS. P ^ g- - 














• 9 


A 




' 


0 -v 




■l 6 9 ;'; 




FEE.ee iS 5 i 




jgjdfied} Sighting of Unidentified Flying Object 




de^ral' . 


^ Materiel Command. - 


• ••'-^S^fe^^^v' : rfeVrlto-»att8rsoir Air Force Base 
- t«: * Ohio'- - 1 ' -. 


' .. .“ v '-'iraft^r ’Chief, Intelligence Departseat 


~**&rSm-v;-* Tft ; . ^ .. - 




• > •• •? a^Va 2 ^:'. > 


.«* • v • !- ~ 


■’•<■- 




i ia made to radnote, this headjoEwtera, date tine 


132056TT»»ceraiae unidentified flying object sighting on 
1 She Inclosed statements vere obtained moa interro- 


=. YjT cV/.- ....gallon of theTTaval personnel uifl'fing this sighting. 




*.." • - • » . - . . 


_ ^V'yiW’SIfTIS^l ^ - ..■•• 


.’-A '-bt ooHKtfb cur the cqsar a? sias?: 1 


— ' • / » — ?••■•- '•••!• -/.r . “ . 




■ ••••£•'/ T ^n clfl - X ..-T - 


.; ■ 1~. Statement. fl“LT Xingdon 


^%3§£V' '„.£2^ .statement- far LETS . Jijhes 
. 3. Statement fr LI Soger 
-. " 4j- statenent-fr LI Bethane 


R. Statement -fr- LI Meyer 






LSSISS. S- HARRIS ••:■.• 
’ •' Colors!. USA? 




Chi-..;, Sj.-:hnicfil Capabilities 3ranch 
j7ai:ni.j.ec Ui vision 
. Diraatamta of IrTal 1 -* 




_ - 6 ; StatemenfcfrALC Shiever v 


/ . 7 T~^r-'. Try-Stat ame nt ~ir ~ A S 3 Uahlela •' 


t • " ***••* Jr-Ti *“.•* • • ‘ * l" • 


W > -lf. • > '•.!•' . . * •• . 


• - — *--•« : • . . — - • .••.*•••• • 


• • “• . *. ••• %]» ( 


' * J ' -t ** ; * * % *• r\ m .'y. * *•: 








<"V • .*? 


o' 




L •’•••••• 




\> 






448 - 




J 


- VTm'GWSSlFiEO' OOWXGSA^D AT Xt-Ver' 12 YEAR 




448 






FROM: NEAC PSPPERELL AFB NFLD 


- I 


TO e CSAF WASH D C 




10 f 




f 




NR : EW 0212 


■ i . ■ ■■ - ■ -WO fat.49.„ 


■••••■• ^Identified object seen at OQ55Z IIP Fot/degr- ?r e *>0 11110 °°rt.h r 
’ 50 degrees 03 ain west by crew of Nary 6561, VR1, Petuxent River, MD. _ 


* Originally seen as heavy light in distance on the surface as lights of 
city. Sio'ollowiafi - light, like a fir-e in. col^r, approached rapidly 
and grew very brlght'and very large w ith a sem-circular shape. It was^ 
7p\ on a trub c6UTag~of~ aboutJ 125~5egree:l t plane on a true course of 225 
: -j ''degrees, as it aproached the plane, it suddenly turned about' almost 180 
degrees and disappeared rapidly over the horizon as a small ball.! Speejd 
•"was terrific". See a fr an angle of about 45 degrees looking down fr 
.the plane. Crew all experienced- Nortb-Atlantic fliers Lt F.W. Kingdon, 
It. A. L. Jones, Lt. G.E. Bethune , Lt. N.G.P. *oger, Lt. J.M. Meyer, all_ 
saw object over a 'period of fr"seven to eight min.‘ Plane flying at 
~ '10,000 altitude. — • 




ACTION: •- OIH 
CAF IN: 97532- 




(10 Feb 51) 




MEL/rof 




JDNCUASSiriED 


r^-oo- * PW V ** " ‘ 


x. v, /<r 




iv : 


I "’l f\ fyi'ix ~ 


r> < «: i~ " - 




yi ,«°o s 




✓ 




DO^GRADEO AT 3 VHlliX 




449 








-1 




b. 24th. NORAD Region Senior Director's Dog (Malmstrom 
APB, Montana) . 


7 Nov 75 (1035Z) — Received a call from the 341st Strategic Air 
Command Post (SAC CP) , saying that the following missile locations 
reported seeing a large red to orange to yellow objects m-1, 


L-3, LIMA and L-6. The general object location would be 10 
miles south of Moore, Montana, and 20 miles east of Buffalo, 
Montana. Commander and Deputy for Operations (DO) informed. 


7 Nov 75 (1203Z) - SAC advised that the LCP at Harlowton, Montana, 
observed an object which emitted a light which illuminated the 
site driveway. 


7 Nov 75 (1319Z) - SAC advised K-l say3 very bright object to 
their east is now southeast of them and they are looking at it 
with 10x50 binoculars. • Object seems to have lights (several) 
on it, but no distinct pattern. The orange/gold object overhead 
a 4so has small lights on it. SAC also -advises female civilian 
reports having seen an object bearing south from her position 
six miles west o'f D_ vis town. 


7 Nov 75 (1327Z) - D-l’ reports that the object to their northeast 
seems to be issuing a black object from it, tubular in shape. 


In all this time, surveillance has not been able to detect any 
sort of track except for known traffic. 


7 Nov 75 (1355Z) — iC-1 and L— 1 report that as the sun rises, so do 
the objects they hava visual. 


7 Nov 75 (1429Z) — Prom SAC CP: As the • sun rose, the OBOs dis— i 


appeared. Commander and DO notified. 




2 




- 450 - 




450 






000P41 


8 Nov 75 (0635Z) - A security camper teem at K-4 reported UFO 
with white lights, onfe red light 50 : yards behind white light. 
Personnel' at' K-l seeing same object^ ' ’ 


8 Nov 75 (0645Z) - Height personnel i picked up objects 10-13,000 
feet. Track J330, EKLB 0648, 18 knots, 9,500 feet. Objects as 
many as seven, as few as two A/C. 


8 Nov 75 (0753Z) - J330 unknown 0753. Stationary/seven knots/ 
12,000. One (varies seven objects). None, no possibility, 


EKLB 3746, two F-106, GTF, SCR 0754i NCOC notified. 


8 Nov 75 (0820Z) - Lost radar contact, fighters broken off at 
0.825, looking in area of J331 (another height finder contact). 


8 Nov 75 (0905Z) - From SAC CP: L-sites had fighters and objects; 


fighters did not get down to objects. 


8 Nov 75 (0915Z) - From SAC CP: From four different points: 


Observed objects and fighters; when fighters arrived in the 
area, the lights went out; when fighters departed, the lights 
came back on; to NCOC. 


: 


8 Nov 75 (0953Z) - From SAC CP:" L-5 reported object increased 
in speed - high velocity, raised in altitude and now cannot tell 
the object from stars. To NCOC. 




1 




£-1 reported a bright. white i 
nautical miles north of Lewistowa)? f 




8 Nov 75 (1105Z) - From SAC CP: 
light (site is approximately 60 
NCOC notified. 


9 Nov 75 (0305Z) - SAC CP called and advised SAC crews at Sites 
L— 1, L-6 ' and M-l observing UFO. Object yellowish bright round 
light 20 miles north of Harlowton, 2 - to 4,000 feet. 


9 Nov 75 (0320Z). - SAC CP reports UFO 20 miles southeast of 
Lewistown, orange white disc object. 24th NORAD Region surveil-,i| 
lance-checking • area. • Surveillance unable to get height check. 


9 Nov 75 (0320Z) - FAA Watch Supervisor reported he had five 
air carriers vicinity of UFO, United Flight 157 reported seeing S 
meteor, "arc welder's blue" in color. SAC CP advised, sites stiljf 
report seeing object stationary. 


9 Nov 75 (0348Z) - SAC CP confirms L-l, sees object, a mobile 
security team has been directed to get closer and report. 


9 Nov 75 (0629Z) - SAC CP advises UFO sighting reported around 
0305Z. Cancelled the flight security team from Site- L-l, checked 
area and all secure, no more sightings^ | 




ij&riRENCE C. JAMES, CoiOnel, USAF 
Director of Administration - 451 - 






Cy to: 




HQ USAF/DAD 
HQ USAF/JACL 




451 








000974 




10 Nov 75 (01253) - Received a call from SAC CP. Report UFO 
sighting from site l.-l around Ilarlowton area. Surveillance checkins 
area with height fi.-.fer, 


10 Nov 75 (015^2) - Surveillance report unable to locate track 
that would ‘correlate with UFO sighted by K-l. 


10 Nov 75 (1123 C) - UFO sighting reported by Minot Air Force 
Station, a bright star-like object in the west, moving cast, about the 
siac of a car. Fi seen approximately 10157.. Approximately 1120Z 
the. object passed over the radar Elation,’ 1, 000 feet to 2, 000 feet high 
no noise heard. Three people from the site or local area saw the 
object. NCOC noticed. 


12 Nov 75 (023CZ) - UFO reported from KOI. They say the object 
is over Big Snowy rntn with a red light on it at high altitude. Attempt- 


140 0 ^ 0 E radar ° n A U ° m ° phcirn ’ °P heim searching from 120° to ? 




to bJ 2 N °rT 75 ( ° 2482) ' f ccond in same area reported. Appeared 
object drsap^redT ^ ‘° **“ e round intermittently. At 0250Z 


i 


12 N ° v 75 t° 251z ) * Reported that both objects have disappeared. 
Never had any joy (contact) on radar. 


tron!^ ” ( ° 9512) * SAC CPwith UFO P-SAT team enroute 


from R-3 lo R-4 saw a white lite, moving from cast to west. In sight 


approx 1 minute. No determination of height, moving towards Brady. 


No contact on radar. ! 1 




19 Nov 75 (1327Z) - SAC command post report UFO observed by 
FSC & a cook, observed object travelling NE between M-8 and M-l 
at a fast rate of speed. Object bright white light seen 45 to 50 sec 
following terrain 200 ft off ground. The light was two to three limes 
brighter than landing lights on a jet. 


*"* EAST ENTRY PERTAINING TO THESE INCIDENTS 




452 








EXTRACTS 


NORAD COMMAND DIRECTOR'S LOG (1975) 


29 Oct 75/06302: jCommand Director called by Air Force Operations 


Center concerning an unknown helicopter landing 
in the munitions storage area at boring AFB, Maine. — 
Apparently this was second night in a row for this 
occurrence. There was also an indication, but not 
confirmed, that Canadian bases had been overflown _ 
by a helicopter. 


31 Oct 75/0445Z: Report from Wurtsmith AFB through Air Force Ops 


Center - incident at 03552. Helicopter hovered owr 
SAC weapons storage area then departed area. Tank:r 
flying at 2700 feet made both visual sinhting and 
radar skin paint. Tracked object Z5HM SE over 
Lake Huron where contact was lost. 


1 Nov 75/0920Z: Received, as info, message from Loring AFB, Maine, 


citing probable helicopter overflight of base. ^ 


8 Nov 75/0753Z: 24th NORAD Region unknown track J330, heading SSW, 


12000 feet. 1 to 7 objects, 46.46°N x 109. 23W. Vwo '“1 
F— 106 scrambled out of Great Falls at 07542. SAC 
reported visual sighting from Sabotage Alert Tearr.j 'SAT 
Kl, K3, LI and L6 (lights and set sounds). Weather' 
section states no anomolous propagation or northern 
lights. 08352 SAC SAT Teams K3 and L4 report visual, 


K3 reports target at 300 feet altitude and L4 reports 
. | target at 5 miles. Contact lost at 0320Z. F-lOu's ~ l 
returned to base at QS50Z with negative results. *. 
09052 Great Falls radar search and height had inter- 
mittent contact. 0910Z SAC teams agains had visual "f 
(Site C-l, 10 miles SE Stanford, Montana). 09202 SAC 
CP reported that when F-106's were in area, targets 
would turn out lights, and when F-106's left, targets"! 
would turn lights on. F-106's never gained visual 
or radar contact at anytime due to terrain clearance. 


. This same type of activity has been reported in the _ 


Malmstrom area for several days atthounh previous to 
tonight no unknowns were declared. The track will 
be carried as a remaining unknown. 




10 Nov 75 




Apparently Minot AFB was reportedly "huzzed" by a 
bright object. The object's size seemed to be that 
of an automobile. It was flying at an altitude of 
1000 to 2000 feet and was noiseless. Ho further 
information or description has been received by this 
organization. 




453 






00.0971 




!6 Nov 75/06442 : 




18 Nov 75/12SSZ: 




25 Nov 75/1245Z: 




12 Nov 75/0715Z: 




14 Nov 75/05307.: 




15 Nov 75/0742Z: 




15 Nov 75/1229Z: 




17 Nov 75/1705Z: 




23 Nov 75/1700Z: 




The Cotnao nd Post •oceivcd o report from a MES3 


Cloquet, H-’l (phono 


■■ d# . At 0430/, while driving toward home, ho 
P<i55ed through the town of Esko. lie saw a cigar 
shaped ohjective with red, green and while Hashing 
lights, yd i rig up and down and making sharp turns, 
lie observed this for two hours. Sky conditions were 
clear. i 


The Command Post was told that sightings of fire 
balls, vitinity of Mcndicino County, California, 
had taken) place. No further information, e.g., 
time, location, duration, etc., was available. 


Petersburg, 


Virginia, reported that at about 0600 EST , she saw 
an object hovering at tree-ton level in a clearing 
near power lines one-half mile distant. It had 
4 red lights in diamond shape and ? white flashing 
lights. She heard no noise, saw no. movement and 
could not distinguish any color. She was in her 
car at the time, and slowed to 10 mph but did not 
stop. At 1340, the Coninand Post, was informed that 
she had been re interviewed by lnr.il authorities. 


She stated that the object was diamond-shaped with 
one red light at each point and that she did not 
see any wings. The location was reported to be one 
mile HSU of Petersburg, in a wooded area where power 
lines were being installed. 


F.-iJomlir idjjc Canadian Forces station r<:1nvc«| a report 
fro® Mr. -suty-vrtusrt.T. 1 rs::: vi'r.Tn . Sudbury, 


Ontario, he saw two objects will, vital, appeared to be 
artificial light fading on and off with si jerky motion. 


An tin ident 1 f led civilian, 1 oca tod lw. miles from Falcon- 
bridge' Canadian Forces station . saw a 'lot- 1 ike object 
for 1 and 1/4 hours. It was rolal ini; - going hack and 
forth at a high altitude and had while, blue and red 
lights. 


A Hr. «w »!U3UjjLL: ' ^iirj . ca a x r i^u r j-ij- ' .ni ' ... »y. Sudbury, Ontario, 
was faring south. lie observed one bright yellow object 
going up add back, leaving a tail. It was’ very high, hut 
did not change position In relation in other stars. 


A fir. tl t ti , 1 1 . married student residence, 
l-au rent lari University, Sudbury, Ontario, reported lie bad 
been looking cast. In a partly r.lnudy sky, lie saw one 
bright object about 70* elevation, like a cup in a bowl. 


He was looking at it through binoculars. It climbed high 
out of range of his binoculars, lie observed it for 20 
minutes and was witnessed by his wife. 


An unidentified caller reported a large orange ball 
was seen on an azimuth oC 45" from River Court, Ontario. 


It bad two red lights and was stationary. 


A Ha J J — . -. 1 ■ j- ., u 11 Li I. .A— TLl.ll , Cliclmnford, reported she 


and friends were travelling by ear Tron. Sudbury to Chelms- 
ford. They were followed by a huge oval-shaped object 
with white blinking lights. It: remained below the clouds 
all the while and kept up with the cat. 




454 








AI.7 




Acceinon Number 339 




Directory of Databases 




. ACCESSION NUMBER: 339 




Database Name 
Acronym 
Update Frequency 
Reginnlog Dale 
Size 


Producer 


Name 


Address 


Contact 


Distributor 


Namr 


Address 


Contact 


Generator 


Name 


Address 


Contact 
Availability 
Database Type 
Program LaDguigf 
Computer 
Documentation 
Classification 
Online Access 
Cost 


Military Sponsor 
Descriptors 


Abstract 




NORAD Uninown Traci Reporting System 


NUTR 


Monthly 


1971 


7,000 


North American Aerospace Defense Command 
HQ NORADfNPY. Peterson AFB, CO 80914-5001 
COMMDtQAL 


Wingeard. R. O. (303) 354-3758 


North American Aerospace Defense Command 
HQ NCRAD/NPY. Peierson APB, CO 80914-5001 
COMMBtOAb 


Wingeard, R. O. (303) 554-3758 


North American Aerospace Defense Command 
HQ NORAD/NPY. Peierson AFB, CO 80914-5001 
CDMMBtOAL 


Wingeard, R. O. (303) 554-3758 


Limited 


Alphanumeric 


Pascal 


Zenith-150 


Available 


Secret 


No 




AUTOVON 


692-3758 




ALTDVOK 


692-3758 




AUTOVON 


692-3758 




Air Force 


Air Force; Aircraft; Greenland; Iceland; Identification; Latitude; Longitude. North 
Amenct Number of Unknowns; Region; Scramble Actions; Scramble Bases- Soviet 
Traffic; Tracking; United Kingdom 


The NORAD Unknown Track Reporting System records details of all air traffic 
declared unknown in North America and the Greenland- Iceland-Untted Kingdom 


£*“5* * * ,de vancly of “ sas in NORAD. USAF. Joint Chiefs of 


Stall. Canadian NDHQ. and region commanders in a continuing assessment of 
airspace sovereignty. , 




page 400 




* 




455 - 




455 










ai.8 000975 






456 








$$$& . N M C C 


THS NATIONAL MtUTART COMMAND CENTER 








HH im BCM TOR MCOIP 




Mjieti Xaporta of OBldtttiflad Flying Objects enrol) 




1. At spproxlnstaly 0343 I», tha lUOCC call*] to lndloata 
they had received several reports of oro's in tha vicinity 
of Fort Kltchla. Tha following oranta naarlia tha npurta 
(tlaaa an approxinata) . 


a. CkUO - Clrlliana raportad a DTO sighting naar 
Mt. Airy, Md. Thia lnfonation was ohtainad Tla a 
fro* tha Matiooai Aaronaatlca Board (T) to tha Fort 
Utchia Military Police. 


, *>• Oja - TWO aaparata patrols* tram Bits tt raportad 
sighting 3 oblong objects with a raddish tint, saving 
aaat to west. Faraoonal wan locatad at aaparata locations 
on top of tha noun tala at Uta A. 


e. 0300 - Dark Sgt at Bits X want to tbs top of tha 
lita X scran tain and observed a CFO orsr tha mmu storage 
ana at 100-200 yards altitnds. 


d. 0343 “ An Arwy Folios Sgt tha way to work at 
Uta X raportad sighting a CTO in tha vicinity of Uta X. 


a* XXMCC was raqoastad to haws aach individual writs a 
Uatnant on tha lightings, Ona individual statad tha object 
was about tha sin of a 2 1/2 too truck. 3 


*. Xaaad on I JCI ■e a orandua, subjacti Tatarstan Inversion 
“ Movaahar 1373, tha SMCC contactad tha Air 
Forca Global Heather Central. Tha Doty Officar, Lie 




ahowad two t w r armtura inversions axiatad at tha tins of tha 




allagad sightings. The; first jsxtanded froo tha surfaca to 
1,000 fast ahsoluta and tha aaoodd axiatad between 27,000 
and 30,000 fast, absolute. Xa also said tha atwsphan 
between 12 ,000 -and 20,000 feet was heavily saturated with 
aoistun. A hard oopy sassage will follow. 




I>. J. 1EBLASC, Jr. 
Xrigadiar General, OSMC 
Deputy Director for 
Operations, BMCC 




457 














ACT ION t NONE sP-^JT) | 


info: fjr / 


AT’CZYUU RUFK JCS^/ 1 ? ? fe£<78 1 0 HTHS^CCCC — I.IJFFHOA. 1 


ny _c r cc e- 
P 210 8 ) 07 SEP 76 
FM JCS 


JNFO RUSHC/SECST ATE UASH DC 
RIJFAIIF/C I A 
PUFOTAH/NSA l! ASH DC 
RUFaOUU/UHTTE HOUSE -WASH DC 
PUFFHOA/CSAF UASH DC 
RUFNAA A/CNO U ASH DC 
RUF ADHD/CS A i VI ASH DC 


b 2306307 SEP .76 j 


FM USOAO TEHRAN 
TO RIJFKJCS/OI A. UASHDC 


INFO RUrKUCS/SFCDEF DEPSECDEF -.UASHDC 
rufrra a/cphtdfastfor 


RUDOEC A/CTNCUSAFF LINDSEY AS’ GEZINCF 
•RHFRAAB/CINCUSAFF '.rahstein AB IGE/INOCN 
RUSNAA A/FUDAC VAIHINGEN GER-’ 


RUSNAA A/UGCTNCEUR VAIHINGEN GER/ECJ-2 
RT 


CONFIDENTIAL 1235 S E P-7 6 
THIS IS IR 6 BB6 0139 76 


1. <U> TRAN 


2. REPORTED UFO SIGHTING (U) 


3 V (U> NA j 


A. «U1 IB Si 2 0 SEP 76 


■5-- CU) TEHRAN. IRAN: 20 SEP -76 
6. »U1 F-6 


IF." (U! 6 8«J6 noos INOTE RO COMMENTS! 


8. <U) 6 TJ^G 0133 76 


B. CU) 2ZSEP 76 
io: cu) na 


11- <U> ‘.INITIATE* I PSP PT-1A4D 


12- IU> USOAO. TFHRAN. IRAN 




13- fUl FRANK B- MCKENZIE. • COL. USAF » :DA -IT 
)«4’- tUl N« 


15- (Jrn THIS REPORT FORWARDS ’IN FORf<A TT ON" C ON CE RNING THE 
SIGHTING OF :AN UFO IN IRAN ON:i«j SEPTE HBER 1 976 . 


A--. AT ABOUT 1230 AH ON 1 3 ^EP -7P THE BKOSBE^JSESSES 


RECEIVED FOUR TELEPHONE CALLS 
FROM CITIZENS LIVING IN THE SHE HI RAN AREA OF TEHRAN ’.SAYING 




F-RIORTTY 








-■» t ?r /')£ -5 .V 












> fN" 




000910 




v-'iosur 


OCT I 




MSG65V 






57 




PAGE 




08 13 




THAT THEY HAD SEEN S TR ANGE 0 BJE CIS TH THE SKY. SOME REPORTED 
A KIND OF BTRO-LTK£. OBJECT WHILE OTHERS REPORTED A HFLICOPT ER 
THERE WERE NO HELICOPTERS AIRBORNE AT THAT 




ViIT w 




LIGHT 




I A FT ER. HE TOLP TIC CITI2FN TT-WAS ONLY 




STARS AND HAD TALKED TO HEHRABAD TOUEj? HE DECIDED TO LOOK FOR 
NTH SELF . HE NOTTCFO AN OBJECT IN THE SKY SIMILAR TO A STAB » 
BIGGER AND BRIGHTER. HE DECIDED TO SCRAMBLE AN F-A FROM 
SHAHROKHI AFB TO INVESTIGATE. 


o- AT 01 3D HRS ON THE 19TW THE F— A TOOK OFF AND PROCEEDED 
TO A POlNtr ABOUT A O NM NORTH OF TEHRAN. DUE TO ITS BRILLIANCE 
TH ‘ OBJECT UAS EASILY VISIBLE FROM 70 HILES AWAY. 


AS THE F-A APPROACHED A RANGE OF 25 NM HE LOST ALL I NS TR UHEN TA TIO N 
AND COMMUNICATIONS < UH F AND INTERCOM1J HE BROKE OFF "THE 
INTERCEPT AND HEADED 8 ACK TO SHAHROKHI. UHEN THE F— A TURNED 
AUAY FROM THE ORJFCT AND APPARENTLY UAS NO LONGER A THREAT 
TO IT THE AIRCRAFT REGAINED ALL -I NST RLtMENT AT IflN AND COM- 
MUNICATIONS. AT Dl«tD HRS A SECOND F-A WAS L AUNCHED. -THE 
ftACKSEATER ACQUIRED A RADAR LOCK ON AT 27 NH » 12 0*CL0CK 
high p OS TT TON WITH THE VC {RATE OF CLOSURE* AT 150 NH PH. 


AS the RANGE DECREASED TO 25 NM THE OBJECT MOVED AUAY AT A 
SPEED THAT UAS VISIBLE ON THE RADAR SCOPE AND STAYED AT 25NN 
c - T Kj: s 3ZE- OF THE RADAR RETURN UAS COMP AR A8L E TO THAT OF 
A 707 TANKER. THE VISUAL ST2E OF THE OBJECT UAS DIFFICULT 
TO .'DISCERN BECAUSE OF ITS INTENSE BRILLIANCE. THE 
LTGHT THAT TT GAVE OFF UAS THAT OF FLASHING STROBE LIGHTS 
ARRANGED IN A RECTANGULAR PATTERN AND ALTERNATING BLUE.- GREEN. 


RED AND ORANGE IN COLOR. THE SEQUENCE OF THE LIGHTS UAS SO 
fast THAT all the COLORS COULD BE SEEN AT ONCE. THE OBJECT 
AND THE PURSUING F-A CONTINUED ON A COURSE TO THE SOUTH OF 
TEHRAN UHEN ANOTHER BRIGHTLY LIGHTED OBJECT- ESTIMATED TO BE 
ONE HALF TO ONE THIRD THE APPARENT SIZE OF THE MOON, CAME 
OUT OF THE ORIGINAL OBJECT. THIS SECOND OBJECT HEADED STRAIGHT 
TOWARD T KF F-A AT A VERY FAST PATE OF SPEED. THE PILOT 
ATTEMPTED TO FIRE AN AIH-9 MISSILE AT TH E OBJECT BUT AT THAT 
INSTANT HTS WEAPONS CONTROL PANEL WENT OFF AND HE LOST ALL 
COMMUNICATIONS (UHF and INTERPHONE!. AT THIS POINT THE PILOT 
I-NTTIA.TEO A TURN AND NFGATIVE G -DIVE TO GET AWAY. AS HE 
TURNED THE OBJEAZ FELL IN TRAIL AT UHAT APPEAREDTO BE ABOUT 
3-4 NH. AS HE CONTINUED IN. HIS TURN AUAY. FROM THE PRIMARY 
OBJECT THE SECOND OBJECT WENT :TO THE TNSIOE OF HIS TURN THEN 
RETURNED TO THE PRIMARY OBJECT FOR A PERFECT REJOIN. 


D. SHORTLY AFTER THE SECOND ORJECT JOINED UP UlTH THE 




PRTHaRY OBJECT ANOTHER OBJECT APPEAR FO TO COHE OUT OF THE 




PRT ORITY 






- 459 - 






459 










OTHER ST DE OF THE PRIMARY OBJECT GOING STRAIGHT OOVN-AT A 
GREAT RATE .OF SPEEOj THE F— 4 CREW jHA D REGAINED COMMUNICATIONS 
AND THE WEAPONS CONTROL PANEL ANO jwATCHEO THE OBJECT APPROACH 
THE GROUND ANTICIPATING A t A RGE EXPLOSION. THIS OBJECT APPEARED 
70 COME TO REST GENTLY ON THE EARTH AND CAST A VERY BRIGHT 
LIGHT OVER AN AREA OF ABOUT 2—3 KILOMETERS. 


THE CREW DESCENDED FROM THEIR ALTITUDE OF ?6 H TO- J5« AND 
CONTINUED TO OBSERVE AND MARK THE OBJECT'S POSITION. THEY 
HAD SOME DIFFICULTY IN ADJUSTING THEIR NIGHT VISIBILITY FOR 
LANDING SO AFTER ORBITING HEHRABAD; A FEU .TIMES THEY --U E NT OUT 
FOR A STRAIGHT IN LANDING. THERE WAS A LOT OF INTERFERENCE 
ON -THE IIHF AND EACH TIHE THEY PASSEn THROUGH A MAG. BEARING 
OF 150 DEGREE FR OM EHRABAD THEY LOjST THEIR C OHM UNI C A T I ONS ' MJHF 
AND INTERPHONE! AND THE INS FLUCTUATED FPOM 30 DEGREES- 50 DEGREE 
THE ONE GTVTL AIRLTNER THAT VAS APPROACHING HEHRABAD DURING ’THIS 
SAME TIHE EXPERIENCED COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE IN THE SAKE 
V-TCINITY IKTLO ZULU> BUT OTD NOT REPORT SEEING ANYTHING. 


WHILE THE F-A VAS ON A LONG FTN AL APPROACH T PE- CRE U NOTICED 
ANOTHER rrve.TNOER SHAPED OBJECT fABOUT the site- of a t-btpd 
AT 10M) WITH BRIGHT STEADY LIGHTS ON EACH END AND A FLASHER 
IN THE MIDDLE. WHEN QUERIED THE TOWER ST AT EO THERE WAS NO 
OTHER KNOWN TRAFFIC IN THE AREA.. DURING THE TIME THAT THE 
OJBJECT PASSED OVER THE F-4 THE TOuEp DID NOT HAVE A VISUAL 
ON IT BUT PTCKEO IT UP AFTER THE PILOT TOLD THEM TO LOOK 
BETUEEN THE MOUNTAINS AND THE REFINERY. 


E- DURTHG -DAYLIGHT THE F-4 CR EU WAS TAKEN OUT TO THE 
AREA IN A HELICOPTER WHERE THE OBJECT APPARENTL Y. HAD. LANDED. 
NOTHING WAS NOTICED AT THE SPOT WHERE THEY THOUGHT THE OBJECT 




LANDED IA DRY LAKE BED) BUT AS THEY CIRCLED OFF TO. THE 
WEST OF THE AREA THEY PICKED UP A V/ERY NOTTCEARLE BEEPER 
SIGNAL. AT THE POINT WHERE THE RETURN WAS THE LOUDEST WAS 


a- 1 small house with a garden, thfy landed and asked the people 


WITHIN IF THEY HAD NOTICED ANYTHING STRANGE LAST NTGHT. THE 
PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT A LOUD NOISE AND A VERY BRIGHT LIGHT 
LIKE LIGHTENING. T HE ' A IR CR AF T -A NO AREA WHERE THE OBJECT IS- 
BELUEVFQ TO HAVE LANDED ARE BEING CHECKED FOR POSSIBLE RADIATION 




•Vv- - .. **— v - 


■-•r&Be*?'-- i. 




*iC*r»V7» - 




■ v v • •» *■ -Tf «. . V'm: 




F-ORUARDED when IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. 




P. T . i 


« ,£ »7 1 7 


PTCC2YUU RUFK JCSST 12 Z 67 08 ID: C130-CCCC 




2G70814 




#**♦*******,+ +-** + ++ t-*************. 




priority 
















'• '■ ‘‘ ‘ ''joint ekirri’orxT^<y' ■■ ’ 


00108.3 '• ^ 




18(43 




ufSS*.Ct Clvli* 




page-,8 _____ 


18« CUO USOAO, TEHRAN, IRAN , 


=. 13# (U) FRANK B, MCKENZIE, COL, US AF , DATT 
•* * • • (U) N A « * . j 


r eport forwards information concerning the 
• SIGHTING of AN UFO IN IRAN ON 18 SEPTEMBER 1876. 


A, AT ABOUT 123b AH ON 18 SEP 76 THE IMPERIDAL IRANIAN 


rBDN^r?TTTi5J A . F J C0MMAND P0«'T RECEIVED FOUR TELEPHONE CALLS 
CITIZENS LIVING IN THE SHE M IRAN AREA OF TEHRAN SAYING 
THAT; THEY HAD SEEN STRANGE OBJECTS IN THE SKY, SOME REPORTED 


' ' VITH N i i°irST R 2’ LI !J E c 0 ! JECT HHILE OTHERS R-PORTED A HELICOPTER 
ttIc A »hc C 2 T 0N * THERE HER L HELICOPTERS AIRBORNE AT THAT 
TIME, THE COMMAND POST CALLED BG YOUSEFI, -SSISTANT DEPUTY 


*?"5 AN °? R 0F oper *tions, after he tolp the ciuzen I? J!I Y ONLr 


r N °ur AD TAl,KE0 TO MEHRABAD TOWER HE DECIOED TO LOOK FOR 
n °TICED AN OBJECT IN THE SKY SIMILAR TO A STAR 


SHAHROKHI AFB TcTlNVEST I GATE^ T ° SCRA * BLE AN Fm4 FR0 H 


■ . «! s ? « mi ssKi.Jrjufr .‘b/ksje;::,, 


THE OBJECT MAS EASILY VISIBLE FROM 70 MILES AWAY, 


A 2 n 'T." E ' E * 4 *PPROACHED A RANGE OF 85 NM ME LOST ALL INSTRUMENTATION 
AND COMMUNICATIONS (UHF AND INTERCOM!, HE BROKE OFF THE E A|TI 
AND HEADED BACK TO SHAHROKm!, k H I2 0 ?5e%-4 ?5rnED ' 


' in A »V F >2c ™ E 08JE CT * AND APPARENTLY WAS NO LONGER A THREAT ' 


" MUN^»tnut X,, ?5 A ri/ e 2f IHEO ALL IN, T R UMENTATION AND COM. 
MUNICATIONS, AT B148 HRS A SECOND F.4 WAS LAUNCHED THE 


2t25‘^I E 2 AC0UIRE0 4 R A0* R LOCK on at 87 nS, 12 O^ClScK 
HIGH POSITION WITH THE VC (RATE OF CLOSURE) AT 15B NM PH . 


AS THE RANGE DECREASED • TO 25 NM THE OBJECT MOVED AkAY AT A 




uti.Kt.AOE.o iu 23 NM T ME OBJECT MOVED AkAY AT A 
■ '• (PEED THAT WAS VISIBLE ON THE RAOAR SCOPE AND STAYED AT 86NM. 


<?•;. the size. ':of thE'.rao.ar return, was. comparable '.to .that. - of 


r‘:v5 *'■:? •'! 7-0 7 . 7 ANKER •* :A-T7F. »fiF ‘••T.wr :.na • ..r\frr.«Min >' •. *** 




.••vs* • 


; >-*• 






V: >•" • 




-1- 


. V 




•* *! 




461 




461 










001084 






12043 ' 




■v-V"! • 


-- A 




PAGE 3 


INST ANT HI* WEAPONS' CONTROL PANEL WENT I OPF AND ME LOST ALL 
CONHUNJ C AT IONS (UKF AND INTERPHONE) Af THIS POINT THE PILOT 
INITIATED A. TURN AND NEGATIVE G DIVE TQ .GET AWAY, AS HE 
TURNED THE DBJEAZ FELL IN TRAIL AT WHAT APPEARED TO BE ABOUT ! ,'•> • 


*■4 NH, AS HE CONTINUED IN HU TURN AWAY FROM THE PRIHARY . • -V 


OBJECT.. THE SECOND OBJECT WENT TO THE INSIDE OF HIS TURN THEN 
RETURNED TO THE PRIMARY OBJECT FOR A PERFECT REJOIN, • -V : 


:-D-,- SHORTLY AFTER THE SECOND OBJECT JOINED UP WITH THE 
PRIHARY OBJECT ANOTHER OBJECT APPEARED TO COME OUT or THE .• 


OTHER -SIDE OF THE PRIMARY OBJECT GOING STRAIGHT DOWN, AT A ' 


GREAT.. RATE OF 8PEED, THE F-4 CREW HAD REGAINED COMMUNICATIONS .• • 
AND'THE WEAPONS CONTROL. PANEL AND WATCHEO THE OBJECT APPROACH "'V 


THE GROUND ANTICIPATING A LARGE EXPLOSION, THIS OBJECT APPEARED 
TO- COME TO REST GENTLY ON THE EARTH AND CAST A VERY BRIGHT 
LIGHT' OVER AN AREA OF ABOUT -20 KILOMETERS, 


THE CREW DESCENDED FROM THEIR ALTITUDE OF 26M TO ISM AND ■ 


CONTINUED TO 0B8ERVE AND MARK THE OBJECT'S POSITION, THEY 
HAD. SOME DIFFICULTY IN ADJUSTING THEIR NIGHT VISIBILITY FOR 
LANDING 50 AFTER ORBITING MEHRABAO A FEW TIMES THEY WENT OUT 
FOR At-STRAIGHT IN LANDING, THERE WAS A LOT OF INTERFERENCE • f-v' 


ON THE UHF AND EACH TIME THEY PASSEO THROUGH A MAG, BEARING . ■' 


OF 130 DEGREE FROM EHRABAD THEY LOST THEIR COMMUNICATIONS CUHF . *• •• 
AND INTERPHONE) AND THE INS FLUCTUATED FROM 30 DEGREES - 80 DEGREES 
THE ONE. CIVIL AIRLINER THAT WAS APPROACHING MEHRABAD DURING THIS 
. SAME TIME EXPERIENCED COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE IN THE SAME '.w‘ 


VICINITY- (KItO ZULU) BUT 010 NOT REPORT SEEING ANYTHING, '."V 


WHILE. THE F-4 WAS ON A LONG FINAL APPROACH THE CREW NOTICED > 


ANOTHER CYLINDER 8HAPED OBJECT (ABOUT THE SIZE OF A T-BIRD 
AT IBM), WITH BRIGHT STEADY LIGHTS ON EACH END AND A FLASHER • 


. IN THE MIDDLE, WHEN QUERIED THE TOWER STATED THERE WAS NO ' 


■ OTHER. KNOWN TRAFFIC IN. THE AREA, DURING THE TIME THAT THE.. 


’• OBjECr.f A8SE0. OVEJT * ' ‘ ‘ c “ 


::i-oN,.wtB.aT;p;i'c<Ep-i:: 


..■BE T> EE-N ‘.THE . MOUNTAINS 


■ tv .duri ng' Day li on r-‘ 


AREA IN . A HELiCOPTER- WHERE.. THE' OBJECT APPARENTLY HAD LAN'DEO-,-. 






.•.V. 


‘ <“• 










'•f •* 




vv 




* .*• , 


!> X-.-b: 


m:. 


« 








- 2 - . 
• 462 




462 












PACE 4 ' I 


LIKE LIGHTENING, THE AIRCRAPT ANJ AREA WHERE THE OBJECT 18 
B EL W EYED TO HAVE LANDED ARE BEING CHECKED FOR POSSIBLE RADIATION 
RO COMMENT*! ■■ ACTUAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT 
HAS OBTAINED FROM SOURCE IN CONVERSATION WITH A SUB-80URCE, AND 
IT AF PILOT OF ONE OF THE F-4S, MORE INFORMATION WILL BE 
FORWARDED WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE, 


BT 


*S37 5 - 


ANNOTE8 


JEP 117 






- 463 - 




463 








HOW YOU SEE Vi, NOW YOU DON’T! (U) 


Ceplalo Ktarr S. Siltl/i, HQ ViAH/lHOHf 




. .%S Sometime in his caret r, each pilot can expect to encounter 
strange, unusual happenings witch will never be adequately or 
entirely explained by logic or subsequent investigation. The follow- 
ing article recounts just such an episode as reported by two F-4 
Phantom crews of the Imperial Iranian Air Force during late 1976. 
No additional Information or explanation of the strange events has " 
been forthcoming; the story will be filed away and probably for- 
gotten, but it makes inte re sting, and possibly disturbing, reading. 




Until 0030 on a clear autumn morning. It had been an 
entirely routine night watch for the^mpe rial Iranian Air Force's 
command pos^in the Tehran area. In quick succession, four calls 
arrived from one of the city's suburbs reporting a series of strange 
airborne objects. These Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) were 
described as 'bird-like', or as brightly-lit helicopters (although 
none were airborne at the time). Unable to convince the callers 
that they were only seeing stars, a senior officer went outside to 
see for himself. Observing an object to the north like a star, only 
larger and brighter, he immediately scrambled an IIAF F-4 to 
investigate. 


IS ’Approaching the city, the F-4 pilot reported that the 
brilliant object was easily visible 70 miles away. When approxi- 
mately 25 NM distant, the interceptor lost all Instrumentation and 
UHF/Intercom communications. Upon breaking off the Intercept 
and turning towards his home base, all systems returned to normal, 
as It the strange object no longer regarded the aircraft as a threat. 




DECUSS’H 






1 


l 


1 






001023 


A second F-* wn scrambled ten minutes Alter the firstT'"-. 


The backs cater reportcdradar-lock on the UFO At 27 NM/12 o'clock 
igh position, And a' rite of closure of 150 knots. Upon reaching the 
L- NM point, the object began rapidly moving away to maintain a 
constant separation distance while still visible on the radar scope. 


Y. .iilc the sice of the radar return was comparable to that of a KC- 
135, its intense brilliance made estimation of actual sice impossible, > 


Visually, it resembled flashing strobe lights arranged in a rectangu- 
lar pattern and alternating blue, green, red, and orange. Their 
sequence was so fast that all colors could be seen at once. 


£3 As the F-4 continued pursuit south of Tehran, a second 
brlghtly-llt object (about one-half to one-third the size of the moon) 


. detached from the original UFO and headed straight for the F-4 at a 
high rate of speed. The pilot attempted to fire an AIM-5 missile at 
the new object but was prevented by a sudden power loss in his 
-weapons control panel. UHF and Internal communications were ' 
simultaneously lost.- -The pilot promptly initiated a turn and negatlve- 
. G dive to escape, but the object fell In behind the F-4 at 3-4 NM 
distance. Continuing the turn, the. pilot observed the second object 
turn Inside of'him and then away, subsequently returning to the pri- 
mary UFO for a perfect rendezvous. 


C3 The two UFOs had hardly rejoined when a second object 
detached and headed straight down toward the ground at high speed. 


Having regained weapons and communications systems, the aircrew 
watched the third object, anticipating a large explosion when it struck 
the ground. However,. it landed gently and cast a bright light over a 
two-three kilometer area. ' The pilot flew as low over the area as 
possible, fixing the object's exact location. 




. S3 Upon return to home base, both crewmen had difficulty in 






465 














adjusting lb* Ir night viiloa devices for luidfan, Tb* Undaig m , 
further comidicatsd by cxcssslvc iatsrfsrsnc* m »nr and * further 
complete lose of all communicatlens when passing through a ISO ' 
degree magnetic bearing from the home bate. The laertial naviga- 
tioa tyittm olmultaneouily fluctuated from 30 to SO degree*. A civil- 
airliner approaching the are* alio experienced a similar communica- 
tions failure, but reported no unusual sighting*. 


While on a long final approach, the F-4 crew noted i further 
UFO. This was described as a cylindsr-shapsd objsct (about the 
sixe. of a T-33 trainer) with bright steady light* on sach end and a 
flasher in the middle. It quickly approaehtd and passed directly 
over the F-4. In answer to the pilot's query, the control tower 
reported no other air traffic in the area, although they aubaequently 
obtained a visual sighting of the objsct when specifically directed 
where to look. 




■cS® The following day. the F-4 crew was flown by helicopter 
to the -location where they believed the object had landed. This 




turned out to be a dry lake bed, but nothing unusual was noticed, 


A* the helicopter circled off to the west, however, a very noticeable 
beeper signal was received, and eventually traced to a nearby house. 


They immediately landed and asked the inhabitants if anything strange 
or unusual had occurred the previous night. Yes, they replied, 
there had been loud noises and a very bright light, like lightning. 


The helicopter returned to base and arrangements were mads to 




conduct various tests, such as radiation checks. In the vicinity of 
the house. Unfortunately, the results of such tests have not been 
reported. (t ggS) - „ , 








34 




- 466 - 




i 


!' 


I 




i 


!- 




466 






AI.12 




hm IU 


*4 l» IM i 




CD 






tviwtsd Unexplained Lights 




n.. RAF/CC 


1. Early in Uie morning of 27 Dec BO (approximately Q3QQL), two llSAF 
security police patrolmen saw unusual tights outside the back gate at 
RAF Woodbridge. Think' i ng an aircraft might have crashed or been forc'd 
down, they called for permission to go outside the gate to investigate. 
The on-duty flight chief responded and allowed three patrolmen to pro- 
ceed on foot. The individuals reported seeing a strange glowing object 
m the forest. The object was described as being metal ic In appearan'e 
and triangular in shape, approximately two to three meters across the’ 
base and approximately two meters high. It Illuminated the entire forest 
iJSht. The object itself had a pulsing red light on tap and 
a oanfc(s } of blue lights underneath. The object was Ivovering or on leys. 
” S ,i ? l ,atro * ll,en approached the object, it maneuvered through the trees 
and disappeared. At this time the animals on a nearby farm went into a 
frenzy. The object was briefly sighted approximately an hour later near 
the back gate. 




2. The next day .three depressions 1 1/2" deep and 7“ in diameter were 
found where the Object had been sighted on the ground. The following 


"i a i 60 t,,e area was checked for radiation. Beta/gamma readings 


or o.l mi 1 1 1 roentgens were recorded with peak readings In the three ce- “ 
press tons and near the center of the triangle formed by the depressions. 


A nearby tree had moderate (.05-. 07) readings on the side of the tree 
toward the depressions. _ 


3. Later In the night a red .sun-like light was seen through the trees. 


It moved about and poised. At one point it appeared to throw off Glowing 
particles and then broke into five separate white objects and then’dis- 
appeared. lufliediately thereafter, three star-like objects were noticed 
in the sky, two objects to the north and one to tha. south, all of which 
were about lo off the horizon. The objects moveci rapidly In sharp tngular — 
movements and displayed red, green and blue lights. The objects to t.>B 
north appeared to be elliptical through ah 8-12 powej- lens. They then 
turned to full circles. Thu objects to the north rema/ned in the sk\ for — 
an hour or more. The object to the south was visible for two or thrt- 
hours and beamed down a stream of light from time to tine. Numerous indivi- 
duals. Including the undersigned, witnessed the activities in paragrcuhs 


2 ana 3, j 


C|(aRLES t'^^LT^ Lt Col, USAF 
Oepuly base Coiimander 


DbfivnirVf 




467 - 




* -l-\ ,7" Vrt 




xj. Tli&r: 




4- ' 


r ;‘i ; 


■h 


a. 




I. 1 ' jii 


‘ i. V 
•=' % 




467 








301000 




INSPECTION „ND SURVEILLANCE RECORD 






1. WORK. ACTIVITY • 


tt/t: / os-xj 7~ 




‘•TtSS-A? 0 -OORESS OF CARRIER, OPERATOR, AIRPCrlT, 
ACCKCY, On AIRMAN 




i. CERTIFICATE HO. OR 
AIRCRAFT RCCtS- 
T RATION UARK^o.; 






UMJaYi JFACTON 
on in /!«• a] 




&r/Czr 


II fithlc.U-ee.A-cre. Cf\Pr. Ke-ti J l{ Ti=-(Zfi-c4c.lc i. sp&=o . SA HfteJu 
X /4 Cpru- rfo*-( 'Dtc.U ~ Quu-evs c&t-’cg’JS.JJ / t-lej A 


Tal. '~Lt~ UJ} h IC-L. "fcfc CAP7! hAD StA-TS'O tt£ UJJeS Cf 


QdouaeA c><s sUaAooOc.^ 


-L <^l?sj2irc/^^ TZLe. A-/c_ LP*-1D <z>tJ R’/uJ (oQ. A-’f l¥Z& U.aurzJL 


Ui c>THe2^ A /c. UJAs NcrfD, TTfe- S'7M7 a -r& 


Av-eo- X luf^ucsto^io OrtT 0 - 1if£*4oL< ^ C.'-ca 


of “TWO'C^/a j fjt. CAPT~. St?tTBC» T7-ir\~ TerLS UJh-S 


^tu-lST TlH-Z. tUth. iUs kaA •UU..'*. 


hi STATE® ^rtuAr Sun isGteH. f ASSto^ liu Cv-^Adi e ~*-'y/- 


Uesdc^- A&rMi. asl 35000 ' fypAa.reA $ ^ 


MM id Y<=- ' r ^ ^ 




0-747 CAZOO 








MAINTENANCE 




X I AVION ICS 




FU Form. 21 12 <a-7o> 




OK'S 3ICNATURL 








lYU-S. COVCWJmEKT PRINT1NC OFFIClf: 1S.5-S71-3&J313 


468 - // 




468 




















INSPECTION AND SURVEILLANCE RECORD 




UMQKH. activity 


!, . 




j NAME AMO AOORESS OF CARRIER, OPERATOR, AIRPORT, 
r **ACCHCY, OR AIRMAN 




/lkOIAGS/RECOM*EWOATlOMS 












r»» (£oW«ir. 
action In 
»f-n «) 




1cU7 . 


Tn Jl,,, 4 u.£«Jed *4 tlos. VVjUf - 4 ^ 4 Leufc p«.v«JU-( " c «-^ 


LOA 3 ®«ul. |jL ^v^es UJAC 


l’cS 6 uses -V W -tk ( FHo 7 ^H 


T'Tts 4 fiL*<.C-£' \JJ Ao ■ 4 -aMjUi. -&&H 'bk-t 'Co-ha-'' A<-Sfp(-a-t-{ £ Z °'^ 


pw rU. '~fC<-c_w f-r cri-c*-c-d. * 4 © Coughs’ Cut*.$- ~&iu. C&P ( 


3 _ _ > a. •■ vJ « >■ - • /-) ^ 


pAriO’— TCu-T-c- i‘ W /Vs lfP IT* UJ frs tOPrlT"l«J<jr '*rery f-C-t— - 


jg^.r A-ppv~<=»^. "rfcc. a\p j < 2 .ct 'Voofc. 4 ^ 


fc. j . I 


3 tU -tend) uja s. G-crxjL. & u(.m ere* 3 PL r" pi 




^stK Au-c. £ ujfts Xjex^Ufi’SrSb (lbe-Az- 


Jiz a 4 * a * Gm Jj-uCK yjhz S Cr&hlXtQ— J>Lc$^Z-Z_ 


. A {unCitJ^ ^/ULiUSsS^- ’ \JJ[TU ~blcz CrrcMo 


ji'cePr So*C.£ 'Oil im 7 ^ ^* pr: £_£VxxiJ 


*iir«. shook- op buT p/o-&sStBA J a^. Sah^> 


^uT^ikgvJ gO THE CR&j^> AT T/\(_ (OpJW'aA «.t>i03 _ ^aPtT 'T^‘2 A<4c.c 
i’^ Q.s-^^0 tRTC. l-A' iLf^A. Up "fro a 


L^4S- ° j u ‘ ?r Ttf© To-nvu TiKS- tf//hS ; 


SUr^, SS“Hi uu-nrs- fl -Uok. *ipLc_ -Cif ^ j 


V* 7^5 T2>Kcyo. ■£ ^-V'’ t ud uj&'S'-a. "^p k-e- -^ 6C • 


M FTf me— »!»»«« la U«« —^ra* ^ ^ ' I ’ 




flPgWATlOMS 


“• HTtKAWCE 


OMICS 




DATE 


RECiON AND OISTRICT OFFICE 


• 








INSPECTOR'S SIOHATURE . 


















470 






AI.14 




000999 




PERSONNEL STATEMENT 


- ■ FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 


Anchorage Air Route Traffic Control Center 


The following is a report concerning the incident to aircraft JLI628 
November IS, 1936 at 0230 ETC. 


My name is Carl E. Henley (HC) I am employed as an Air Traffic Control 


by , Che I ' ederal - vla = ion Administration at the Anchorage Air Route 
• Traffic Control Center, Anc...orage, Alaska. b e 


During the period of 2030 ETC, November 17, 1986, to 0430 ETC, November ’8 
t S8 ° *, ” as 011 duEy ln thc Anchorage ARTCC. I wa s working the D15 position 


from C1S6 UTC, November 18, 1986 to 0230 UTC, November 18, 1986. P 


At approximately 0223Z while monitoring JL1628 on ' Sector 15 — «d-- 
aircraft requested traffic information. I advised no traffic in hi* 
vicinity. The aircraft advised he had traffic 12 o'clock same alf-ude t 
asked JL1628 if he uould like higher/lower altitude and the pilot* replied 


aTlo^see J th ed ^ th !? CC t0 SeC if the * had «.ffie In the Ir« 


-ad. to see if they had primary targets in the area. ROCC did have primary 


target in the same position JL1628 reported. Several tines I had sincle 


ll ^ r ,? et ' 1Z ?, S n 0 WhC T E -TL1628 re P° rced craffi =. JU-628 later requested a turn 
to heo.d_ng .-10 , I approved JL1628 to make deviations as necessary fo- 


*A y .d « Eh juu, a™* „d III 


vicinity of FA^ I requested JL1628 to make a right 360° tum to see if he 
c ? uld “ denE ~ fy the aircraft, he lost contact momentarily, at which time I 
mto rVed t primary target in the 6 o'clock position 5 miles. I then veefto-ed 
CA69 northbound to FAI from ANC with his approval to see if he could identify 
the aircraft, he had contact with the JL1628 flight but reported no other 
t.a-.ic, iy th.s t-me J1162S had lost contact with the traffic. Also a 
? southbound to RDF from EH. advised he had plenty of fuel and 
vould take a look, I vectored isim toward the flight and climbed him to •="•>40 
nc also had no contact, * ’ 


Notes I requested JL1628 to identify the type or markings of the airc-af- 


JLlB 28 1 f o n ° C “ e . nS r i7 bUt re?0rted vhlce and strobes. I requested* the 


JL1628 to say flight conditions, he reported clear and no clouds. 




OojJI So. /ri 








November 19, 1986 




- 471 - 




471 










000908 




• ■ 


PERSONNEL STATEMENT 


FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 
Anchorage Air Route Traffic Control Center 


’ ; January 6, 1987 


< 


• 


The following is a report concerning the incident to j a «in i _ _,'Q 


1628 (JL1628) North of Fairbanks, Alaska on Novenber 18, P 1986~lc~C218 -DTc'* S 


My naae is Carl E. Henley (HC). .1 aa employed as an Air Tr-ffie r Qn .- n , 


Specialist by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Anfho-,-1 I® 1 
Route traffic Control Center (ARTCC), Anchorage, Alaska. Aocho - a *e A.r 


During the period of 2030 ETC, November IS ’Ogfi n/m « 


18, 1986 I was on duty in the Anchorage ARTCC. I was wo-kine ’the^R/E’S 
position from 0156 DTC, November IS, 1986 c 0 DO Kc L 1 ^ 
position from 0230 CTC, November 13, 1986 to 0258 KC. November ?8 , 1986 


I am making this statement to clarify cerra-'n .... 


statement dated Novenber 19, 1986. -Pi- my or_g_nal 


Ref paragraph 4: 


I stated in paragraph four that several tines I had severe’ 
l?^r e f 1,1628 rcporced traffic; in actuality I observed three 'typ^ 
symbol/ V 1 tentative radar targets which showed up as a (-) 


symbols. _ saw (+) symbols that indicate radar only tracks. I also s-v 
ncn run leath targets which show up as a (.) symbols. 


5 / taced the stayed with JL1628 through turns and 


descent, „his in-omation was what I received from JL 1628. 




Carl E. Henley.. Jr—- 
Air Traffic Control Specialist 
Anchorage ARTCC 




- 472 - 




472 






ULU 04? - 


BA —II/ 23b “ 




C£C 3 i jggg 




Director, AAL-1 




Administrator 




BV ^ 17 *^ 1 ^ SI G H T I NG ; At 6:19 pm AST, JAL #1628 Cargo, 


* l350 enrou te to Tokyo via Reykjavik, Iceland, and 
Anchorage, reported observing lighted air traffic, in close 
proximity Flight crew unable to determine shape but 
®. 1 * based on flashing yellow, amber, green, lights (no 


hi-? t hi? tier e t0 B74 ?’ ARTCC controller advised 


him that there was no known air traffic, but did report 


r _‘j ® rmittent radar targets. (Subsequent regeneration of 
ra^ar tapes revealed no valid traffic data.) 


* rew sighting continued for over 350 miles until obiect 
lert m eastern direction. Pilot also was able to view object 
using onboard color radar. OS Air Force, Elmendorf AFB, 
f ® p ° rteG , toavin 9 bhe JAL and an occasional primary target on 
» , c .. raaar (military informing media that it was 
clutter ) . JAL pilot requested and performed 360-degree turn 
and object continued with him. UAL «69 and military C-130, 
volunteered to be vectored in attempt for visual sighting, 
bOi.h with negative reports. 


JAL flight crew interviewed by FAA upon landino. Crev/ 
determined to be professional, rational. We ha"ve bee., 
coordinating with the military. 


National and international news media inquiries mounting 
after inquiry by Kyodc News Service. 




Franklin L. Cunningham 




473 








AI.16 




INQUIRE=DOC10D j . 


ITEM N0=00508802 


ENVELOPE 


CDSN = LGX391 MCN = 90089/26558 TOR = 900901048 
RTTCZYUW RUEKJCS5049 089 125 1 -CCCC — RUEALGX . 


ZNY CCCCC 
HEADER 


R 301251Z MAR 90 
FM JOINT STAFF WASHINGTON DC 
INFO RUEADWD/OCSA WASHINGTON DC 
RUENAAA/CNO WASHINGTON DC 
RUEAHQA/CSAF WASHINGTON DC 
RUEACMC/CMC WASHINGTON DC 
RUEDADA/AFIS AMHS BOLLING AFB DC 
RUFTAKA/CDR USAINTELCTRE HEIDELBERG GE 
RUFGA I D/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE 
RUETIAQ/MPCFTGEORGEGMEADEMD 
RUEAMCC/CMC CC WASHINGTON DC 
RUEALGX/SAFE 
R 301246Z MAR 90 
FM 


TO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC 


INFO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC//DAT-7// 


RUSNNOA/USCINCEUR VAIHINGEN GE//ECJ2-OC/ECJ2-JIC// 


RUFGA ID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINGEN GE 


RHFQAAA/HQUSAFE RAMSTEIN AB GE//INOW/INO// 


RHFPAAA/UTAIS RAMSTEIN AB GE//INRMH/INA// 


RHDLCNE/CINCUSNAVEUR LONDON UK 


RUFHNA /USDELMC BRUSSELS BE 


RUFHNA/USMISSION USNATO 


RUDOGHA/USNMR SHAPE BE 


RUEAIIA/CIA WASHDC 


RUFGAID/JICEUR VAIHINGEN GE 


RUCBSA A/F ICEURLANT NORFOLK VA 


RUEKJCS/SECDEF WASHDC 


RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC 


RUEADWW/WHITEHOUSE WASHDC 


RUFHBG/AMEMBASSY LUXEMBOURG 


RUEATAC/CDRUSAITAC WASHDC 


BT 


CONTROLS 






SERIAL: (U) HR 6 807 0136 90. 




PAGE: 001 1 


001036 




BODY 


COUNTRY: (U) BELGIUM (BE). 


SUBJ : IIR 6 807 0136 90/ BELGIUM AND THE UFO ISSUE iU) 


WARNING: (U) THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY 






- 474 - 




474 








s 


3 


I 


i 


i 


i 


3 


3 


i 


( 


4 


1 


J 


i 


i 


I 


1 


3 


3 




EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE. REPORT CLASSIFIED 




PAGE:0012 




DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 




DCI: (U) 900326. 




SOURCE: A- (U) LA DERNIER HEURE, 20 MAR, DAILY FRENCH 


LANGUAGE PAPER, CIRC 100,000; B- (U) LE SOIR, 26 MAR 
DAILY FRENCH LANGUAGE PAPER , CIRC 213,000 




SUMMARY: (U) NUMEROUS UFO SICHTINCS HAVE BEEN MADE IN 
BELGIUM SINCE NOV 89. THE CREDIBILITY OF SOME INDIVIDUALS 
MAKING THE REPORTS IS COOD. SOME SICHTINCS HAVE BEEN 
EXPLAINED BY NATURAL/MANMADE PHENOMENA, SOME HAVE NOT. 
INVESTIGATION BY THE BAF CONTINUES. 


TEXT: 1. (U) NUMEROUS AND VARIOUS ACCOUNTS OF UFO 


SICNTINCS HAVE SURFACED IN BELGIUM OVER THE PASTTEH 
MONTIE. THE CREDIBILITY OF THE OBSERVERS OF THE ALLEDCED 
EVENTS VARIES FROM THOSE WHO ARE UNSOPHISTICATED TO THOSE 
WHO ARE THE WELL EDUCATED AND PROMINENTLY PLACED. 


2. (U) SOURCE A CITES MR LEON BRENIG, A A3 YEAR OLD 
PROFESSOR AT THE FREE UNIVERSIY OF BRUSSELS (PROMINENT) IN 
THE FIELD OF STATISTICS AND PHYSICS. HE CLAIMS TO HAVE 
TAKEN PICTURES OF THE PHENOMENA WHICH ARE STILL BEING 
DEVELOPED BUT WILL BE PUBLISHED BY THE BELGIAN SOCIETY FOR 
IKE STUDY OF SPACE PHENOMENA IF THEY ARE OF GOOD QUALITY. 


3. (U) MR BRENIC WAS DRIVINC ON THE ARDENNES AUTOROUTE IN 
THE BEAUFAYS REGION EAST OF LIEGE, SUNDAY, 18 MARCH 1990 
AT 2030 HOURS WHEN HE OBSERVED AN AIRBORNE OBJECT 
APPROACHING IN HIS DIRECTION FROM THE NORTH. IT WAS IN 
THE FORM OF A TRIANGLE ADOUT THE SIZE OF A PINC-FONC BALL 
AND HAD A YELLOW LICHT SURROUNDINC IT WITH A REDDISH 
CENTER VARYING IN INTENSITY. ALTITUDE APPEARED TO BE 500 
- 1000 METERS, MOVINC AT A SLOW SPEED WITH NO SOUND. IT 
DID NOT MOVE OR BEHAVE LIKE AN AIRCRAFT. 


a 


U. (U) MR BRENIG CONTACTED A FRIEND VERY NEAR THE AREA 
WHO CAME OUT AND TOOK PICTURES OF IT WITH A ZOOM LENS AND 
NOO ASA FILM. BOTH INSISTED THE OBJECT COULD NOT BE AN 
AIRCRAFT OR HOLOGRAMME PROJECTION AS THE SKY WAS CLOUDLESS. 


5. (U) THE SOURCE B ARTICLE WHICH DISCUSSES A BELGIAN 


TELEVISION INTERVIEW WITH COL WIL ( C DEBROUWER ) ) , CHIEF OF 


OPERATIONS FOR THE BAF, MOST LIKELY WAS THE RESULT OF A 
FOLLOW-ON ACTION TAKEN BY MR BRENIC WHEN HE CONTACTED 
LTCEN-C(TERRASSON)), COMMANDER, BELCIAN TACTICAL 
(OPERATIONAL) COMMAND. CEN TERRASSON CATECORICALLY 
ELIMINATED ANY POSSIBLE BAF AIRCRAFT OR ENGINE TEST 
INVOLVEMENT WHICH COL DEBROUWER CONFIRMED DURINC THE 25 




PACE: 00 13 




475 




001014 






PACE:0014 


I SQUIRE: DOC 100 
ITEM N0=00503294 
ENVELOPS 


■cos:; = lcx «92 mcn = 90089/26566 tor = 900891502 


RTTCZVUV RUEKJCS5049 0891251 -CCCC — RUEALCX . 


ZHX CCCCC 
HEADER 


R 301251Z MAR 90 


FM JOINT STAFF WASHINGTON DC 


INFO KUEADWD/OCSA WASHINGTON DC j . * 


RUENAAA/CNO WASHINGTON DC 


ROEAHQA/CSAF WASHINGTON DC 


RUEACMC/CMC WASHINGTON DC 


RUEDALA/AFIS AMHS BOLLING AFB DC 


RUFTAKA/CDR USAINTELCTRE HEIDELBERG CE 


RUFGA ID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINCEN CE 


RUETIAQ/MPCFTGEORGECMEADEMD 


RUEAMCC/CMC CC WASHINGTON DC 


HUEALCX/SAFE 


R 3012462 MAR 90 


TO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC 


INFO RUEKJCS/DIA WASHDC//DAT-7// 


RUSNNOA/USCINCEUR VAIHINCEN CE//ECJ2-0C/ECJ2-JIC// 


RUFGA ID/USEUCOM AIDES VAIHINCEN CE 
RHFQAAA/HQUSAFE RAMSTEIN AB CE//INOW/INO// 


RHFPAAA/UTAIS RAMSTEIN AB CE//INRMH/INA// 


RHDLCNE/CINCUSNAVEUR LONDON UK 
RUFHNA/USDELMC BRUSSELS BE 
RUFHNA/USMISSION USNATO 
RUDOCHA /USNMR SHAPE BE 
RUEAIIA/CIA WASHDC 
RUFCAID/JICEUR VAIHINCEN CE 
RUCBSAA/FICEURLANT NORFOLK VA 
RUEKJCS/SECDEF WASHDC 
RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC 
RUEADWW/WHITEHOUSE WASHDC 
RUFHEG/AMEMBASST LUXEMBOURG 
RUEATAC/CDRUSAITAC WASHDC 
BT 


SECTION 02 OF 02 IWWW 05049 




SERIAL: (U) HR 6 807 0136 90. 


BODY 


COUNTRY: (U) BELGIUM (BE). 


SUBJ: IIR 6 807 0136 90 / BELGIUM AND THE UFO Issue (U) 


MAR TV -SHOW. 




CONTROLS 










h- 








uwiWAw 




v 




PACE: 0015 




6. <u) DEr.riouutK noted the larce number or reported 


SIGHTINGS. PARTICULARLY IN NOV 89 IN THE LIEGE AREA AND 
THAT THE AND MOD ARE TAKING THE ISSUE SERIOUSLY. BAF 


GXP CRTS 1-L..C NOT BEEN ABLE TO EXPLAIN THE PHENOMENA EITHER. 


7. <U> DEEROUVER SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSED THE POSSIBILITY 
OF THE OBJECTS BEING USAF B-2 OR F-117 STEALTH AIRCRAFT 
WHICH WOULD NOT APPEAR ON BELGIAN RADAR, BUT MIGHT BE 
SIGHTED VISUALLY IF THEY WERE OPERATING AT LOU ALTITUDE IN 
THE ARDENNES AREA. HE MADE IT QUITE CLEAR THAT NO USAF 
OVERFLIGHT REQUESTS HAD EVER BEEN RECEIVED FOR THIS TYPE 
MISSION AND THAT THE ALLEDCED OBSERVATIONS DID NOT 
CORRESPOND IN ANY WAY TO THE OBSERVABLE CHARACTERISTICS OF 
EITHER U.S. AIRCRAFT. 


8. (U) HR BRENIG HAS SINCE ASSURED THE COMMUNITY THAT HE 
IS PERSONALLY ORGANIZING A NEW UFO OBSERVATION CAMPAIGN 
AND SPECIFICALLY REQUESTS THE HELP OF THE BELCIAN MOD. 




9. RELATED A SIMILAR UFO SZCKTINC WHICH 


APPARENTLY HAPPENED TO A BELCIAN AIR FORCE OFFICER IN THE 
SAME AREA NEAR LIECE DURING NOVEMBER 89. THE OFFICER AD 
HIS WIFE WERE ALLEDCEDLY BLINDED BY A HUGE BRIGHT FLYING 
OBJECT AS THEY WERE DRIVING ON THE AUTOROUTE. THEY 
STOPPED THEIR CAR, BUT WERE SO FRIGHTENED THEY ABANDONED 
THE VEHICLE AND RAN INTO THE WOODS. THEY COULD NOT 
PROVIDE A DETAILED DESCRIPTION BUT WHATEVER IT WAS 
DEFINITELY APPEARED REAL TO THEM. UNDERLINED 


THEIR CREDIBILITY AS SOLID. 


COMMENTS: 1. KBSB3E3HHI COMMENT. HE COULD PROVIDE 


VERY LITTLE CONCRETE INFORMATION EXCEPT TO VERIFY THE 
LARGE VOLUME OF SICHTINCS AND THE SIMILARITY OF SOME 
DURING NOV 89. 






2. ■■^BlTHE BAF HAS RULED SOME SICHTINCS WERE CAUSED BY 
INVERSION LAYERS, LAZER BEAMS AND OTHER FORMS OF HICK 
INTENSITY LICHTINC HITTING CLOUDS. BUT A REMARKABLE 
NUMBER OCCURRED ON CLEAR NIGHTS WITH NO OTHER EXPLAINABLE 
ACTIVITY NEARBY. 




3. mBBTHE BAF IS CONCERNED TO A POINT ABOUT THE UFO 
ISSUE AND IS TAKING ACTION TO INVESTIGATE INFORMATION THET 
HAVE. ■BES2HD0ES ADMIT. HOWEVER, THAT HE IS NOT 
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT RESOLVING THE PROBLEM. 


N. IBSIIUB FIELD COMMENT. THE USAF DID CONFIRM TO THE BAF 
AND BELGIAN MOD THAT NO USAF STEALTH AIRCRAFT WERE 
O WWWW IN THE ARDENNES AREA DURING THE PERIODS IN 


QUESTION. THIS WAS RELEASED TO THE BELCIAN PRESS AND 
RECEIVED WIDE DISSEMINATION. 




PACE:001b 




ADMIN 
PROJ: 
INSTR: 
PREP: 
ACQ: 
DISSEM: 
WARNING 




CU) 


(U) US NO. 




(U) FIELD: AHEKBASSY BRUSSELS (DCM). 


CU) REPORT CLASSIFIED 




BT 


#5049 




477 - 




477 












C/V' 




-olonel De Brouver: 
OUR DEFENSE 
SYSTEM IS 
’OWERLESS AGAINST 
VHESE MACHINES" 




AUTHORIZED PUBLICATION OF DOCUMENTS 
FROM THE BELGIAN MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
From Fronch m.g.iln. PARIS-MATCH, No. 2145. July 5. 1990. 


A UFO ON THE F16’s RADAR 


/ixclttsirc rr/nnl /" r QSETI 


l\t /US- A l A 7X7/ / b f MafitS ’l btrcsc clr. Brasses 
'■ ‘ASHEVILLE, NC 28813 ’ 




AI.17 






T kjr. arc authorized by tlic Belgian Ministry of Dc- 
ir fence to publish this documentation. It's **// ie 
j stf) nf l/ic skies”. These two screens (shown in the 
accompanying photos) are the incontestable testimony 
loan encounter between Science and fiction. For the 
l it time ever, the Belgian Air Force has agreed to di- 
gc the radar-images of a UFO intercepted by the 
pilots of its F-IGs. The recordings were registered dur- 
ing the night from March 30 to March 31 , 1990 . 


STRATEGIC OPERATIONS 




Ever since November 1989, the Belgian Military 
ivc been on the alert. Numerous Gendarmerie rc- 
. »rts arc coming in daily, describing sightings of 


— UFOs, over the national territory of Belgium. It had 
. all begun on that crazy night of November 29, 1989, 


• jring which thirty groups of eyewitnesses (including 


* rcc Gendarmerie patrols), scattered over a distance 


— **• of 800 kilometres between Liege and the Belgian/ 
jL German and Bclgian/Dutch frontiers, observed, over 
k period or hours, a strange triangular and almost si- 


.„nt apparatus moving very slowly, and at a very low 
H altitude, and without creating the slightest tubulencc. 


Like all the Air Forces in the world, the Belgian 
f|* iilitary possess supersonic aircraft that stand ready, 


J’: *4 hours a day, to take ofT at five minutes’ notice. Here 


it means two single-seater F-/Gs armed with missiles. 




Oil june 22, 1990, after Submitting to all 
>ic Security checks, I find myself in the Headquarters 
* of the Belgian Air Force, near Brussels. In a small 
r ooin, Colonel De Brouwer, Chief or the Operations 
j lection of the Belgian Air Force, switches on a video 
: .apc-rccordcr. On the video screen appears the film 
\ brought back in the " black box* of tiie F-/6 aircraft 
. lull, in the night of March 30/31 last, was sent up in 
tursuit of an unidentified flying object. (This isn’t the 
- really big chase that was to happen two weeks later, 
i.Mnybe we arc not alone in the Universe. 


I Win says this? It is the. Militniy, the jmn'erbially 
ilent Militaiy. 7 hey are telling you that the UFOs ate no 
myth. Tmltty, on Jane 22, 1990, for the fast time ever, 
on Air Force has consented to rcivnl (in fxiri) a major 
'Million from this file which is not Science- Fiction. 


ax. "In any ease”, explains Colonel De Brouwer, “It 
. would have been quite out of the question for the 
F-tCs to have been able to overtake the machine at 
that low altitude, where the density of the air prevents 
them from going faster than 1,300 kms.p.h. Beyond 
•Mliat speed, the temperature in the compressors of 
their engines would cause the turbines to explode. So, 




you see, there was a logic in the i6&efticnts of the 
UFOr j ( P.O. #15401 


SPACECRAFTS 1 TACTICS ASHEVILLE, NC 28813 


The entire happening is as though the mystery 
machine was guided intelligently to evade its pursu- 
ers. And during the next hour the same scenario will 
be enacted twice more. The oITicial report furnished 
by the Headquarters of the Belgian Air Force to SO- 
BEPS (Tlic Belgian Society for the Study of Space 
Phenomena) states:- 


“/n three cases, the pilots managed to lock their radars 
on In the target Jor a few seconds, and each time this 
brought alsout a drastic change in the behaviour of 
the UFO." 


i he UFO is literally playing hide-and-seek with the 
fighters. It dives towards the ground at verf high 
speed to evade both the radars of the aircraft and the 
ground-radars, and then quietly climbs again jet low 
speed a little further on, thus re-appearing onc^more 
upon the radarscopes and starting oIT a fresh process 
of attempted interception. 


T bis staggering merry-go-round is observed from 
the ground by a large number of eyewitnesses (includ- 
ing twenty Gendarmes). They see the UFO and they 
see the two F- J 0s, but during the entire duration of the 
affair (75 minulesj nobody hears the famous supersonic 
'Iraiig' that ought to have aceotnftanied the object's pas- 
sage through the sound barrier! No materia l damage was 
re/rorted from immediately below the event, ■ whereas, 
given the s/teed and the btw altitude of the machine, its 
breaking of the sound-barrier ought to have ted to the 
shattering of an i ncal culable number of /sanes of glass. 
THERMORE, - NO~ MACHINE IS CAPABLE OF 
FLYING AT 1,800 KMS.P.H. SO CLOSE TO THE 
GROUND,- IN SUCH DENSE AIR AND — A 
FORTIORI — WITHOUT EVEN MAKING ANY 
BANC'. * 


Next I asked: “Was it a natural phenomenon, or the 
re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere of a piece of 
rocket debris?" 


Answer: “No. A meteorite or a rocket fragment does 
not penetrate our atmosphere in a zig-zag fashion. 


And the analysis or the radar recordings shows 
numerous changes or direction. Furthermore, the 
atmospheric conditions at the time ruled out any 
phenomenon of an electromaeneticnature". 


Professor Jean-Pierre Petit of France | This high- 
ranking physicist, who is a Director of Research at the 
French National Centre For Scientific Research 
(CNRS) and who has just recently written the book 










ENUUfcTE SUR LBS OVNIS [— in English “THE 
UFO INVESTIGATION") published in 1990 by 
Aihin Michel, Paris), is categorical, and he makes this 
firm statement:- 


“At the present, time no machine built by man 
exists that is capable of such performances, es- 
pecially of Flying at supersonic speeds without 
making any bang. What degree of confidence can 
be placed in this proof? The same degree of confi- 
dence as was given to the first detection of a super- 
nova in 19R7 in the Magellanic Clouds Galaxy. 


I am firmly convinced that this 
sort of interception of a UFO by radar has already 
actually happened a great many times over the 
past thirty years (maybe by means just as sophisti- 
• eated as those of the F-I 16 and already in use by 
all the Air Forces of the world# 


THE HIGH-UPS* IN THE MILITARY 
ALREADY KNEW WELL ENOUGH THAT THE 
UFOs ARE REAL. BUT THEY WEREN’T TALK- 
ING. THEY SIMPLY WANTED TO KNOW 
MORE. 


INTERCEPTION 


. “Look!", says Colonel Dc Brouwer, halting the picj 
ture and pointing to the 'diamond’. “At this moment 
wc have what wc call, in our military jargon, a success - • 
fut interception. " 


I ask: “What docs ' successful interception’ mean in 
concrete terms?" 


He replies: “Our fighter ’planes arc equipped with 
automatically guided missiles. Had the order been 
• given, all that the pilots would have had to do would 
have been to release their salvos of missiles and these, 
provided already with the data furnished by the on- 
board computers, arc smartly 'homed in* onto the tar- 
get (In this present ease of course there was no ques- 
tion of their doing that Our aim was simply to ident- 
ify the intruder.) 


'The pilots themselves will not have had the neccs- 
. sary time Tor initiating all this procedure. Their radars 
will slay locked-on to the target for just six seconds, 








* m 


n 




.. 




n'Jly'P ENCLOSURE 1 30 : 
and die object, which has meanwhile been progres- 
sively increasing its speed, and is at this moment do- 
ing 2j80 kms.p.h., now changes to 1,000 kms.p.h. and 


changes altitude bom 3,000 metres to 1 ,700 metres 


all in the space of one second/ This fantastic accelera- 
tion corresponds to 40 gs. it would mean the instan- 
taneous death of any human being on board. The 
limit *>f what a fighter pilot can stand is about 0 gs. 1 


“The trajectory followed by the UFO is moreover 
extremely disconcerting. After moving to an altitude 
of 1,700 metres, it dives rapidly towards the ground 
and, at below 200 metres, it escapes simultaneously 
bom the radars or the two I 7 - 10s and also from the 
radar installations at Cions and at Scmmcrzakc. Over 
that vast suburban sprawl to the south of Brussels the 
ground -scene is in fact just one continuous glitter of 
sparkling lights, against which the pilots are incapable 
of distinguishing the slightest thing visually." 


“THIS CANNOT BE ANYTHINC MADE BY 


MAW." 


— “But” — I then asked, “What about that famous 
/’/ / 7 -A, the American ''Stealth * aircraft, which many 
■ people believe was this UFO?" 


Answer: “THAT AIRCRAFT WAS ABSOLUTELY . 
NOT DESICNED FOR ANY SORT OF PENETRA- ’ 
TION AT LOW ALTITUDE. MOREOVER, ITS 
MINIMUM SPEED IS 278 KMS.P.H., WHEREAS 
THE SPEED OF THE UFO WENT DOWN (TO AS 
LITTLE AS 40 KMS.P.H. THE FU7-A DOES NOT 
POSSESS SUPPORTING JETS THAT WOULD EN- 
ABLE IT TO FLY SO SLOWLY AS THAT. 


AT THIS POINT. THE MINISTER HANDS 
ME THE TELEX MESSAGE FROM THE MILI- 
TARY ATTACHE OF THE US. EMBASSY IN 
BRUSSELS TO THE BELCIAN AIR FORCE 
HEADQUARTERS, ATTESTING THAT THE 
FII7-A HAS NEVER BEEN STATIONED ON 
THE TERRITORY OF EUROPE, NOR HAS IT . 
EVER FLOWN ABOVE IT. 




tji I rt 




: oo 




" Z'? 








190 


990K;i 


O20P. 








L Intergal actic Spacecraft movement on the radarscreeru^ ' 




479 














aq 




r- v - .fa***'* '* 


g&&3 f /! |*i&aOM» f^WJfOe^ f: 




Arizonans say the truth 
about UFO is out there 




On Match 13 hundreds of people reported an enormous object, or objects, 
in the night sky. It’s the most confounding UFO report in 50 years. 


So far there is no explanation, but the government is not investigating. 
Local and federal agencies disagree over who should purse the report 




















M| i i : -M - r | 








480 
























THS BOSTON SITKDAY GLOBE * MAYBLglOO 




3 E3 




Sciknce & Society iy 


UFO theorists gain support abroad, but repression at home 




Study by French officials, routine unexplained sightings, US military safety aspects combine to boost believers 








Br Leslie Kean 




the subject, as well u scientists and weap- 




L aat month's release of the first 
detailed satellite images of Area 
61, the top-eccrtt US Air Force 
test (its in Nevada, prompted a 
Web alts meltdown as people 
from across the nation logged on In search 
of dues about unidentified flying objects. 


The interest has been really phenom- 
enal," said David Mountain, marketing di- 
meter for Aerial Images Inc, which post- 
ed the high-resolution photograph# of 
Area 61 on the Internet 


But those hoping to see signs that cap- 
tured UFOs are stored at the site (aa some 
aficionados have suggested) were des- 
tined to be disappointed. Moot of Area 51 'a 
operations occur underground, making 
photo* meaningless. 


Anyone looking for fresh information 
on UFOs would have better luck trying a 
new, but loss publicized, source: a study 
by the French military, just translated 
into aa approved English edition. 


High-level officials - including retired 
generals from the French Institute of 
Higher Studies for National Defense, a 
government-financed strategic planning 
agency - recently took a giant step in 
openly challenging skepticism shout 
UFOs. 


In a report based on a three-year 
study, they concluded that "numerous 
manifestations observed by reliable wit- 
nesses could be the work of craft of extra- 
terrestrial origin" and that, in fact, the 
best explanation is “the extraterrestrial 
hypothesis.” Although' not categorically 


favor and If it is correct, It is loaded with 




ing this saius concern to high level federal 
oCSdals. With over SO years In Navy and 




The French group reached that con- 
clusion after examining nearly 600 inter- 
national aeronautical sightings and radar/ 
visual cases, and previously undisclosed 
pilots’ reports. They drew on data from of- 
ficial sources, government authorities, 
and the air forces of other countries. Tie 
finding* are contained In a 90-page report 
titled "UFOs and Defense: What Should 
We Prepare Fort" 


The number of sightings, which are 
completely unexplained despite the abun- 
dance and quality of data from them, is 
growing throughout the world," the team 




The authors note that about 6 percent 
of sightings on which there is solid docu- 
mentation cannot be easily attributed to 
earthly sources, aoch as secret military 
exercises. This 6 percent seem "to be com- 
pletely unknown dying machines with ex- 
ceptional performances that are guided 
by a natural or artificial Intelligence," they 
aay. Science has developed plausible mod- 
els for travel from another solar ayatem 
and for technology that could be used to 
propel the vehicles, the report points out 


It assures readers that UFOs have 
demonstrated no hostile acts, "although 
intimidation maneuver* have been con- 
firmed." 


Given the widespread skepticism 
about UFOs, many will quickly dismiss 
the generals' “extraterrestrial hypoth- 
esis." But it is lees easy to do ao once the 
authors’ credentials are considered. The 
study's originator* are four-star General 
Bernard Norlain, former commander cf 
the French Tactical Air Force and mili- 
tary counselor to the prime minister. Gen- 
eral Denis Letty, an air force fighter pilot; 
and Andre Lebesu, former head of the 
National Center for Spore Studies, the 
French equivalent of NASA. 


They formed a 12-member ‘‘Commit- 
tee for ln-depth Studies," abbreviated as 
C0M3TA, which authored the report 
Other contributors included a three-star 
admiral, the national chief of police, and 
the hesd of a gw srnn> e*i t ag ency atndyiag 




Not only docs tho group stand by Ra 
findings, it is urging international action. 
The writer* recommend that France es- 
tablish "sectorial cooperation agreements 
with interested European and foreign 
countries" on the matter of UFOs. They 
suggest that the European 
Union undertake diplomatic 
aetion with the United 
States “exerting useful 
pressure to clarify this cru- 
cial issue which must fall 
within the scope of political 
and strategic alliances." 


Why might the United 
States be interested - albeit, 
privately- in a subject often 
met with ridicule, or consid- 
ered the domain of the irra- 
tional! 


Fcr one thing, declassi- 
fied US government docu- 
ments ahow that unex- 
plained objects with ex- 
traordinary t ec h n ical capa- 
bilities pose challenges to 
military activity around the 
globe. For example, US 
fighter jets have attempted 
to pursue UFOs, according 
to North American Aero- 
space Defenso Command 
logs and Air Force docu- 
ments. Iranian and Peruvi- 
an air force planes attempt- 
ed to shoot down unidenti- 
fied craft in 1976 and 138a 
Belgium F-IGs armed with 
missiles pursued a UFO in 
1990. 


Further, the French re- 
port says that there have 
been 1 Visits above secret in- 
stallations and missile 
bases" and "military air- 
craft shadowed' in the Unit- 
ed States. 


Edgar Mitchell, the 
Apollo 1< astronaut who was 
the sixth man to walk on the 
moon, to one of many sup- 
porters of international co- 
operation on UFOs. Of the 
French report, he says, “It’s 
significant that Individuals 
of some standing in the gov- 
ernment, military, and intel- 
ligence community in 
France came forth with 
this." 


Mitchell, who holds a 
doctorate from MIT in aero- 
nautics and astronautics, is 
convinced “at a confidence 
level above 9C percent, that 
there la reality to all of this.* 


He says, "People hare been 
digging through the files 
and investigating for yean 
now. The file* are quite con- 
vincing. The only thing 
that’s lacking b the official 


* Ul MltcheH joins five-star 
Admiral Lord Hill-Norton, 
the former bead of the British Ministry of 
Defonse, in calling for congressional fact- 
finding hearings into the UFO question 


Although Congress seems disinclined 
to pursue the matter, tbe pubbe's Interest 
in UFOs b cmdiminished. A ballot initia- 
tive underway in Missouri, certified by the 
secretary of state in March, urges Coo- 
gr ess to convene hearings. Tbs initiative 
states that "the Federal Government’s 
handling of the UFO issue has contribut- 
ed to the puhlk cynicism toward, and gen- 




tbe French report chastise* the United 
States for what It calls an "impressive re- 




a policy of disinformation and military 
regulations prohibiting public disclosure 
of UFO sighting*. 


Air Force Regulation 200-2, "Uniden- 
tified Flying Objects Reporting," for ex- 




Images of imported UFOs, taken by, above, a Corfa RScan mapping aircraft le 1971 ai 
the cow of a report by the French mflKary; below left, a Zanesvflk, Ohio, barber b 196€; below right, a 
high school student hi Beaver. Pt- bottom rirfti tones* brothers ta Detroit b 1967. 




U8 Naval Reserve Commander Wil- 
lard H. Miller has long been coramunkit- 




the military's lack of preparation for en- 
counters with unexplained craft could 
provoke dangerous confrontation when, 
and if, such an encounter occurs; "precipi- 
tous military derisions," he warns, "may 
lead to unnecessary confusion, misappli- 
cation of forces, or possible catastrophic 
consequences." 


And he say* he b not alone in hh con- 
cerns ’There are thoee In high places in 
the government who share a growing in- 
terest In this subject,' Miller reports. 


If the US military b concerned about 
UFOe, it b not saying so publicly. Indeed, 




ample, prohibits tbe release to tho public 
and the media of any doU about "thoee ob- 
jects which are not explainable." An even 
more restrictive procedure b outlined in 
the Joint Army Navy Air Force Publica- 
tion 146, which threatens to prosecute 
anyone under its jurisdiction - including 
pilots, dvflian agencies, merchant marine 
captains, arid evea some fishing vessels - 
for disclosing reports of sightings rri- 
evant to US security. 


Although researchers have been able 
to obtain some information through the 
Freedom of Information Act, many UFO 
documents remain classified * 




In earlier decades, issues that remain _ 
pertinent today were openly discussed In 
1960, for example, US Representative 
Leonard G. WoU of Iowa entered art "ur- 
gent warning” from R. E. Hillenkocttcr, a 
former CIA director and Navy vice admi- 
ral, into the Congressional Record that — 
•"certain dangers are linked with unidenti- 
fied Dying objects." Wolf cited General 
L. M. Cbusin, NATO coordinator of Al- 
lied Air Service, warning that "If we per- 
sist in refusing to recognize the existence 
of the UFOa, we will end up, one fine day, 
by mistaking them far the guided mbefics 
of an enemy - and the worst will be upon 
us." 


These concerns were taken seriously 
enough to be incorporated into the 1971 — 
US-Soviet "Agreement on Measures to 
Reduce tha Outbreak of Nuclear War,” 


The French report may open tha doer 
for nations to be more forthcoming once 
again. Chile, for example, b openly ad- “* 
dressing fcs own concerns about air safety 
and UFOs. The now retired chief of Ura 
Chilean Air Fores has formed a commit- 
tee with ctal aviation specialists to study 
recent near-ccllisiona of UFOs and dvi)-___ 
iin airliners. 


As the International conversation 
about UFOs unfold*, sightings continue, 
as they have for decades. Perhape the 
most notable recent US sighting took 
place In March 1997. Hundred* of people — - 
across Arizona reported seeing huge tri- 
angular objects, borering silently in the 
night aky - a righting that, aa the state’s 
US Senator John McCain noted recently, 
has ‘cover been fully explained." 


As recently aa Jan. 6, four poKcemcn *■— 
at different location* In St Claire County, 
Illinois, witnessed a huge, brightly light- 
ed, triangular craft flying and hovering at 
1,000 feet One officer reported witness- 
ing extreme rapid motion by the craft that 
cannot be explained in conventional 
terms. Nearby Scott Air Force base' and 
the Federal Aviation Admbuatration' pur- 
port to know nothing. *" 


The Defense Department mair.Uuja it 


can find no Information acknowledging 


tha existence of the triangular object*. In 
response to a salt by carious ArboMUjjt it 
provided details of its search to US,pb- 
trtet Court Judge Stephen M. MeNamee 
of Phoenix. On March 90, McNarcee con- 
cluded that "a reasonable search wag con- 
ducted" «ren though no information -was 
Obtained, and be dismissed tbe case, id 


There to one government agency irrthe 
country that has taken steps to prejtore 
for a UFO encounter. The Fire Offlftr’a 
Guide to Disaster Control, second edition 
- used by the Federal Emergency Man- 
agement Agency and taught at the seven 
univerrities offering degrees in fire sci- 
ence - warns of "UFO hazards," *u<h aa 
electrical fields that canae blackouts, force 
fields, and physiological effects. 3. 


"Do not stand under a UFO that fa 
hovering at low altitudes," the ^ool 
warns. "Do not touch or attempt to topeh a 
UFO that haa boded." 


Tho tod leaves little room for akspti— 
cbm- John E. Mack, professor of pry chin 
try at Harvard University and a Pulitze. 
Prize-winning author, stopped bilng 
skeptical a long time ago. dl 


"No culture from the beginnirifc Of 
time, no culture from anywhere on'llu 
planet, has ever voided the idea of oil othc- 
intelligent life other than ourselves," h> 
told a UFO conference at the New York 
Hall of Science tom weeks ago. Thath ar- 
rogance.” __ 




I^slieKtanijafrtelcnctjeurrjtlistinik. 
Son Frmcitcc Boy orsc. 








Allt POUCH II K(H II. ATP IN I 
NO. 200-2 




•AFR 200-2 
1-5 


INTELLIGENCE 




,Jl ^tlTMF.NT OF THIS AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON. It AUGUST 106, 




Unidentified Flying Object, Reporting (Short Title: UFOB) 




I'linnise »ihI fieunr-..- ...... Paragraith 


I Minit ion* ........ .............II — ...... 1 


(Miji'clivtn .............. ‘w”]| *‘**** l~'*~** 2 


](i'N[H)|tsiI ii lily ... .............".I””]*"**"** *"*’*’■ — 3 


(tUHlniiri* . ...... 4 


/.I Colh-liim I” LI” I”” •** — ----- ft 


){r| Kir ling ..... !!!!]**"****"" — .................... G 


3trlfH.se of FVicLm ...... R 


**••——* o 




p* ,r P<>fte nuil Scope. This Regulation cs- 
iiililiHlim pioccdtirt* fur n*|M>rlinn information 
;»»««! rvidcnrc pertaining | 4 , ifi«tl flying 


iilijrrlH and m*Ik forfli U»e rcx| tonsil ii I ity 0 f Air 
I iiri-r nHivifii-x in (his regard. If ..applies to nil 
Air I'orrc activities. 


2. Definitions: 


it. Unidentified Flying Objects (VFOIl)— 
lU'Inltw In any nirltnnic object wliicli by perfonn- 
;»n«*o, aerodynamic characteristics, or unusual 
(rat tires does not conform to any presently known 
aircraft. or missile »y|n\ or which can not ho 
jmsilively identified as a familiar object. 


l>. Familiar Objects- Include balloons, ns- 
tronouiical laslies, birds, mid so forth. 


3. Objectives. Air Force interest in unidenti- 
fied flying objects is twofold: First as a possible 
tJireat to the security of the United Slates and 
its forces, and secondly, to determine technical 
asjiccts involved. 


n. Air Defense. To dale, the flying objects 
HTorle.! have imposed no threat to the security 
ol llic United Sillies mat ilx Possessions How- 
ever, the possibility tlmt new air vehicles, l.ostile 
lure ra It or missiles may first he regarded as flying 
objects l»y the initial observer is real. This rc- 
qmres that sightings lie reported rapidly and as 
completely as information permits. 


I>. Technical. Analysis thus far has failed 
to provide n satisfactory explanation for a num- 
l»cr of sightings reported. The Air Force will 
continue to riillrel and analyse reports until all 
sightings ran lie satisfactorily explained, bearing 
in mind that: 


(1) To measure scientific advances, the 
Air Force must lie informed on experi- 
mentation and development of new 
air vehicles. 




(2) The possibility exists that an air ve- 
hielc of revolutionary configuration 
may he developed. 


(3) I he reporting of nit pertinent factors 
will have a direct hearing on the suc- 
cess of the technical analysis. 


4. Responsibility: 


. *)• Reporting, Commanders of Air Force 
activities will report all information nnd evidence 
tlmt mnv mine to their attention, including that 
received from nrljne.ent. commands of the i, .her 
services and from riviliana. 


Ii. Investigation. Air Defense Com.., and 
will conduct all field investigations within the 
ZI, «• determine the identity of any UFOB. 


„ The Air Technical Intelligence 


Center (ATICI), Wright Patterson Air Force 
IJnsc, Ohio, will analyze . nrl evaluate: All in- 
formation and evidence r. ported within the ZI 
nfler the Air Defense Coi iinand has exhausted 
all efforts to identify the U ‘OB; and all informa- 
tion anti evidence collector in oversea Areas. 


•it d V All a< livitics will cooperate 


with Air Defense Comma id representatives to 
insure the economical and prompt success of an 
investigation, inchu ing the furnishing of air and 
ground transportati >n, whi n feasible. 


5. Guidance. T le thor uighr.ess and quality 
of a report or inve* igation into incidents of un- 
identified flying obj-cU an limited only by the 
resourcefulness and imagii ntion of the person 
responsible for preparing t ic report. Guidance 
set forth below is based o cx|»cricnce and has 
been found helpful in evah iting incidents: 


a. Theodolite measurements of changes of 
azimuth and rlevation and angular size. 


b. Interception, identification, or air scarcli 




•Thl. Regal. Horn .«per«.te. AFR 200-2, 26 Au.u., 1953. i.cludln* Ch.ng. 200-2A, 2 IW.b* 1953. 




. 482 - 




482 






000890 




AFK 200-2 


5-7 


action. These actions may bo taken if appro- 
priate and within the scope of existing air defense 
regulations. * 


c. Contact with local aircraft control and 
warning (A CAW) units, ground observation corps 
(GOC) posts and filter centers, pilots and crews 
of Aircraft aloft at the time and place of sighting 
whenever feasible, and any other persons or or- 
ganizations which may have factual data bearing 
on the ITFOB or may be able to oITcr corroborat- 
ing evidence, electronic or otherwise. 


. d. Consultation with military or civilian 
weather forecasters to obtain data on: Tracks 
o( weather balloons released in the area, since 
these often are responsible for sightings; and any 
unusunl meteorological activity which may have 
a bearing on the UFOB. 


c. Consultation with astronomers in the aroA 
to determine whether any astronomical body or 
phenomenon would account for or have a bearing 
on the observation. 


f. Contact with military and civilian tower 
operators, air .operations offices, and so forth, to 
determine whether the sighting could be the 
result of misidcntificAtion of known aircraft. 


g. Contact with persons who might have 
knowledge of experimental aircraft of unusual 
configuration, rocket and guided missile firings, 
and so forth, in the area. 


6. ZI Collection. The Air Defense Command 
baa a direct interest in the facts pertaining to 
UFOB’s rc|>ortcd within the ZI and has, in the 
4G02d Air Intelligence Service Squadron (AISS), 
the capability to investigate these reports. The 
4602d AISS is composed of specialists trained for 
field collection and investigation of matters of 
air intelligence interest which occur within the 
ZI. This squadron is highly mobile and deployed 
throughout the ZI as follows: Flights are at- 
tacheu to air defense divisions, detachments arc 
attached to each of the defense forces, and the 
squadron headquarters is located at Peterson 
Field, Colorado, adjacent to Headquarters, Air 
Defense Command. Air Force activities, there- 
fore, should establish and maintain Unison with 
the nearest element of this squadron. This can 
he accomplished by contacting the appropriate 
echelon of the Air Defense Command as outlined 
above. 


a. All Air Force activities are authorized to 
conduct such preliminary investigation as may 
be required for reporting purposes; however, in- 
vestigations should not be carried beyond this 
point, unless such action is requested by tho 
4G02d AISS. 


b. On occasions — after initial rcjwrU are 




submitted — additional data is required which 
can be developed more ccono./iically by the 
nearest Air Force activity k :n as: narrative 


' statements, sketches, mark^ .mips, charts, and 
•so forth- Under such circumstances, appropriate 
commanders will be contacted by the 4602d AISS. 


c. Direct communication between echelons 
of the |4602d AISS and Air Force activities is 
authorised. 


7. Reporting. All information relating to 
UFOB|s will be reported promptly. The method 
(electrical or written) and priority of dispatch 
will be selected in accordance with the apparent 
intelligence value of the information. In most 
instances, reports will be made by electrical 
means: Information over 24 hours old will be 
given a “deferred’' precedence. Reports over 3 
days old will bo made by written report prepared 
on AF Form 112, Air Intelligence Information 
Report, and AF Form 112a, Supplement to AF 
Form 112. 


a. Addressees: 


(1) Electrical Reports. All clcctriral re- 
ports will be multiple addressed to: 


(a) Commander, Air Defense Com- 
mand, Ent Air Force Base, Colo- 
rado Springs, Colorado. 


(b) Nearest Air Division (Defense), 
(For ZI only.) 


(c) Commander, Air Technical Intelli- 
gence Center, Wrighl-Pattcrson Air 
Force Bose, Ohio. 


(d) Director of I nlelligenee, Headquar- 
ters USAF, Washington 2 5, D. C£ 


j2) Written Reports; 


(a) Within the ZI, reports will be sub- 
mitted direct to the Air Defense 
Command. Air Defense Command 
will reproduce the report and dis- 
tribute it to interested ZI intelli- 
gence agencies. The original report 
together with notation of the dis- 
tribution clTWtcrt then will In- for f? 
warded to the Director of Intelli- 
gence, Headquarters USAF, Wash- 
ington 25, D. C. 


! (I>) Outside the ZI, reports will be sub- 
mitted dirert to Director of Intelli- 
gence, Headquarters USAF, Wash- 
ington 25, D. O. as prescribed in 
''Intelligence Collection Instruc- 
tions" (ICI), June 1954. 


b. Short Title. “UFOB" will npprur at the 
lieginning of the text of electrical messages am) 
in the subject of written rc|»ort»<. 


* c. Negative Data. The word “negative" 








- 483 




483 










3A 




in reply (» any mmibm'ri item of (lie report 
format will imlirato that all logical loads were 
tli ( vi*lo|H a il without success. phrase “not 


applicable" (N/A) will iiultcnlc that UuMHiesl.ion 
dors nut apply to l he sighting being investigated. 


d. Hi' part Format, Reports will inr.iude the 
following nuitihernl items: 


(1) Description of the object (k): 


(a) Slia|«c. 


(h) Sue compared lo a known object 
(use one of the following terms: 
Head of n pin, pea, dime, nickel/ 
quarter, half dollar, silver dollar, 
baseball, grapefruit, or basketball) 
bold in (Tie. bund at about arms 
length. 


(c) Color. 


(dV Number. 


(v) h'ltrtiiiitiiiu, if more than one. 


If) Any discernible features or details. 


■ (g) 'rail, trail, or . exhaust, including 
size of same compared to size of 
ohject(s). 


(It) Pound. If heard, describe sound. 


(i) Other pertinent or unusual features. 


(2) Description of course of ohjcct(s): 


(a) What first called the attention of 
observer (s) to the objccl(s)? 


(b) Angle of elevation and azimuth of 
the objcct(s) when first observed. 


(c) Angle of elevation and azimuth of 
ohjertfs) upon disappearance. 


(d) Description of flight path and 
maneuvers of objcct(s). 


• (c) Manner of disappearance of -ob- 


ject (it). 


(f) length of time in sight. 


(3) Manner of observation: 


(n) Use one or any combination of the 
following items: Ground- visual, 


ground -electronic, air-eloctronic. 
(If electronic, specify ty|>c of 
radar.) 


(b) Statement ns to oplicnl aids (tcle- 
Rcojics, binoculars, ami so forth) 
used and description thereof. 


(r) If the sighting is made while air- 
borne, give type aircraft, Identifi- 
cation number, altitude, heading, 
speed, And home station. 


(1) Time and dale of sighting: 


(a) Zulu time-date group of sighting, 
(h) T.iglit conditions (use one of the 
following terms): Night, day, 


dawn, dusk. 




. 484 - 




000891 -- 


AFR 200-2 
7-8 


! _ ■ • : 


(5) Loentionsof olisorvcr(s). Exact lati- 
tude and longitude of each observer, 


! or Gcorcf position, or position with 
reference to a known landmark. 


10) identifying information of all ob- 
[ server (s): 


(n) Civilian — Name, age, mailing ad- 
dress, occupation, 


| lb) Military — Nuinc, grade, organiza- 
tion. duty, and estimate of reli- 
ability. , 


(7) Weather and winds-aloft conditions 
at time and place oi sightings: 


(u) Observer (s) account of , weather 
conditions. 


(1>) Report from nearest AWS or U. S. 


Weather Bureau Office of wind 
direction and velocity in degrees 
and knots at surface, 0,000', 10,000', 


. I O.tKK*', .20, (XX)*, 30,000', SO, 000', 


and 80,000', if available, 
i (c) Ceiling. 


| (d) Visibility, 
i (c) Amount of cloud cover. 


(f) Thunderstorms in area and quad- 
rant in which located. 


(8) Any other unusual activity or condi- 
tion, meteorological, astronomical, or 


| otherwise, witicli might account for 
the sighting. 


(9) Interception or identification action 
taken (such action may be taken 
whenever feasible, complying with 
existing air defense directives). 


( 10) Location of any air traffic in the area 
at time of sighting. 


(11) Position title and comments of the 
preparing officer, including his pre- 
liminary analysis of the possible cause 
of the sighting (s). 


(12) Existence of physical evidence, such 
as materials and photographs. 


c. Security. Reports should lie unclassified 
unless inclusion of data required by d nl>a''c 
necessitates a higher eiassifieat ion. 


8. Evidence. The existence of physical evi- 
dence (photographs or materiel) will be promptly 
reported. 


a. Photographic: i 


(l) Visual. The negative and two prints 
will lie forwarded, all original film, 
including wherever possible both 
prints and negatives, will l>c titled or 
otherwise properly identified as lo 
place, time, and date of the incident 


3 




I 


' 




484 






000892 


* ? 




AFR 200-2 
8-9 


35 


(fcc ‘'Intelligence Collection Instruc- 
tions" (IC1), June 1954). 


(2) Radar. Two copies of each print will 
be forwarded. Prints of radnrscopc 
photography will be titled in accord- 
ance with AFR 95-7 and forwarded 
in compliance with AFR 95-G. 


b. Materiel. Suspected or actual items of 
mntcricl which come into possession of any Air 
Force echelon will be safeguarded in such man- 
ner as to prevent any defacing or alteration 
which might reduce its value for intelligence 
examination and analysis. 


9. Release of Facts. Headquarters USAF will 
release summaries of evaluated data which will 
inform ihc. public on this subject. In response 
to local inquiries, it is permissible to inform news 
media representatives on U FOB’S when the 
object is positively identified as a familiar object 
(see paragraph 2b), except that (lie following 
type of data warrants protection ami should not 
be revealed: Names of principles, intercept and 
investigation procedures, and classified radar 
data. For those objects which arc not ex- 
plainable, only the fact tlmt AT1C will analyze 
the dafa is worlhly of release, due to the many 
unknowns involved. 


By Order of tub Secretary of the Air Force: 


Official: 


K. E. TIIIEBAUD 
Colonel , USAF 
Air Adjutant General 


N. F. TWININf! 1 


Chief of Staff, United States Air Force 


DISTRIBUTON: 


S; X: 


ONI, PcpiiTlineid of Uic Navy 200 
(5-2, Department of (lie Anny 10 


A a. a. aaiaaiaiat ratana* arricai •••• 




- 485 - 




485 










BY ORDER OF THE 
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 




AI.21 




AIR FORCE MANUAL 10-206 
7 MARCH 2000 






j 


: 








Operations 
OPERATIONAL REPORTING 




COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 




. ■ r 


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil. If 
you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO). 


OPR: HQ USAF/XOOO 


Certified by: HQ USAF/XO 


(MSgt H. Jackson) 


(Lt General Marvin R. Esmond) 


Supersedes AFMAN 10-206, 10 May 1999. 


Pages: 105 




Distribution: F 




This manual implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness. It establishes and describes the Air Force Operational 
Reporting System (AFOREPS). Part 1 introduces the general concept of the AFOREPS and covers 
reporting policies and command reporting responsibilities. Part 2 deals with Operational Status Reports. 
It explains the purpose and gives instructions for preparing and submitting these reports. Part 3 covers 
Operational Support Monitoring Reports. It explains the purpose and gives instructions for preparing and 
submitting these reports. Send recommended changes, additions, deletions, or new reports and any con- 
flict or duplication of other reports to HQ USAF/XOOOO, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 
20330-1480. Commands should supplement this Air Force Manual (AFMAN) instead of repeating 
instructions in separate directives. Send HQ USAF/XOOOO one copy of directives (to include drafts) 
that support or implement the AFOREPS. Waiver authority for this manual is HQ USAF/XOO. 




SUMMARY OF REVISIONS 




This revision incorporates IC 2000-1 and adds the Air Force Operations Group’s authority to request 
information from all Major Commands, Forward Operating Agencies, Direct Reporting Units, and all 
subordinate units. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition. The entire text of IC 2000-1 is 
at Attachment 4. 




PART 1— GENERAL CONCEPTS, POLICIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES 7 




Chapter 1 — INTRODUCTION TO AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL REPORTING SYSTEM (AFOREPS) ,7 


1.1. Concept of the AFOREPS 7 


1.2. Reporting Instructions and Principles 7 ' 


1.3. Command Reporting Responsibilities: 7 


1.4. Authority and References: 8 




- 486 - 




486 






AFMAN10-206 7 MARCH 2000 




39 




| 


Chapter 5 


COMMUNICATIONS INSTRUCTIONS REPORTING VITAL INTELLIGENCE SIGHTINGS 


(CIRVIS) 


5.1. Subject and Purpose. This report provides vital information to the security of the United States and 
Canada which, in the opinion of the observer, requires very urgent defensive action or investigation by the 
US and or Canadian Armed Forces. 


5.2. Reference Materials. Joint Army, Navy, Air Force Publication (JANAP 146). 


5.3. Submitted By. Any Air Force personnel. 


5.4. Submitted To: 


5.4.1. Airborne reports: US or Canadian military or civilian communications facility. 


5.4.2. Post-landing reports: Commander in Chief, North American Aerospace Defense Command 
(NORAD), Cheyenne Mt, Colorado, or HQ Northern NORAD Region, North Bay, Ontario, Canada, 
whichever is more convenient. If landing outside Canadian or US territories, submit reports through 
the nearest US or Canadian military or diplomatic representative. 


5.5. When Submitted. As soon as possible after the intelligence sighting. 


5.6. How Submitted. Reports are normally UNCLASSIFIED but handled as For Official Use Only. 


5.6.1. Use the most rapid means of transmission available. For airborne reports use the same proce- 
dures as for air traffic control. When pilots cannot establish contact with a ground station, make max- 
imum effort to relay the report via other aircraft. 


5.6.2. To avoid delays while airborne, repeat the word CIRVIS three times before the message to pre- 
empt all other communications (except distress and urgency). If this fails to clear the frequencies, use 
the International Urgency Signal "PAN" spoken three times. For the ground relay of airborne reports 
or post-landing reports, use FLASH precedence. 


5.6.3. Transmit during MINIMIZE. 


5.6.4. Use the ESC Cl designator- Continue reporting, priority. 


5.7. Reporting Instructions: 


5.7.1. Facilities receiving CIRVIS reports will rapidly process and forward them as prescribed by 
JANAP 146. 


5.7.2. Report all unidentifiable, suspicious, or hostile traffic (land, aerospace, or seaborne) which, 
because of its nature, course, or actions, considered a threat to the security of the United States or Can- 
ada. Such reporting extends the early warning defense system for the United States and Canada. 
There are five types of CIRVIS reports: 


5.7.2. 1. Issue initial CIRVIS reports while airborne (or as warranted, upon landing). 


5.7.2.2. Issue post-landing CIRVIS reports if airborne reports made. 




- 487 - 




487 






40 




AFMAN10-206 7 MARCH 2000 


5.7.2.3. Issue followup CIRVIS reports by anyone with additional information about an earlier 
report (refer to the initial report). 


5.7.2.4. Issue cancellation CIRVIS reports once sightings are positively identified as friendly or 
determined it was erroneously reported. 


5.7.2. 5. Submit evaluation CIRVIS reports to each addressee of the above CIRVIS reports. 
Promptly submit evaluation reports to keep all interested parties fully informed. 


5.7.3. Report the following specific sightings: 


5.7.3. 1. Hostile or unidentified aircraft which appears directed against the United States, Canada, 
or their forces. 


5.7.3.2. Missiles. 


5.7.3.3. Unidentified flying objects. 


5.7. 3.4. Hostile or unidentified military surface vessels or submarines. 


5.7.3. 5. Any other individual surface vessels, submarines, or aircraft of unconventional design 
engaged in suspicious activity, observed in an unusual location, or on a course which may threaten 
the United States, Canada, or their forces. 


5.7.3.6. Any unexplained or unusual activity which may indicate a possible attack against or 
through Canada or the United States (includes the presence of any unidentified or suspicious 
ground parties in remote or sparsely populated areas, including the polar region). 


5.7. 3.7. Unlisted airfields, facilities, weather stations, or air navigation aids. 


5.7.4. Make every effort to document sightings with as many photographs as possible. Send undevel- 
oped film or prints and negatives, with a brief written report and other identifying information to the 
Director of Naval Intelligence, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20305. The Department of 
the Navy will process the film and return one copy of each print and a roll of new film to the individ- 
ual. 


5.7.5. Use figure 5.1. to gather and report specific sighting details. 


Figure 5.1. Communications Instructions Reporting Vital Intelligence Sightings (CIRVIS). 


GUIDE FOR CIRVIS REPORTING 


The CIRVIS report is a narrative report explaining the sighting. A specific format is not required. Pro- 
vide as much specific detail as possible to aid decision makers in responding to the sighting. Include the 
following information if possible along with any other information which may be significant: 


1. CIRVIS report identification. 


2. Identification of the object(s) sighted. 


a. For identifiable objects, include number and identification of the aircraft, vessel, missile, or individ- 
uals seen. 


b. For unidentifiable objects, give a description including shape, size (compared to a known object e.g., 
pea, silver dollar, baseball, basketball, fighter aircraft, or C-5), number and formation, any discernible 
features or details (e.g., color, trail or exhaust, sound). 


c. Include any observed identification (e.g., insignia, lettering, flags). 




- 488 - 




488 






AFMAN10-206 7 MARCH 2000 




41 




3. The position of the object. Include the date and time (GMT) of the sighting. This can be indicated by 
any of the following methods: 


a. Latitude and longitude. 


b. Over a radio fix. 


c. True bearing and distance from a radio fix. 


d. Over a well-known or well-defined geographic point. 


4. Description of the course of the object: 


a. Altitude. 


b. Direction of travel. 


c. Speed. 


d. Description of flightpath and maneuvers. 


e. What first called attention to the object. 


f. Angle or elevation and azimuth when first observed. 


g. How long was the object visible. 


h. Angle or elevation and azimuth upon disappearance. 


i. How did the object disappear. 


5. Manner of observation. 


a. State how observed: ground-visual, ground-electronic, air-visual, air-electronic. (If electronic, 
specify system). 


b. Were optical aids (telescope, binoculars, etc.) used? 


6. Conditions when sighting the object. 


a. Location of observer. (Use latitude/longitude, a named geographic landmark, or other logical refer- 
ences.) If the sighting is made while airborne, include type of aircraft, identification number, altitude, 
heading, speed, and home station. 


b. Light conditions (use one of the following terms: night, day, dawn, dusk). 


c. Weather conditions (ceiling, visibility, clouds, thunderstorms, temperature, winds, etc.). 


7. Interception or identification action taken (if feasible, complying with existing directives). 


8. Location, approximate altitude, and general direction of flight of any air traffic or balloon releases in 
the area which could possibly account for the sighting. 


9. Preliminary analysis of the possible cause of the sightings. 


10. Existence of physical evidence, such as materials and photographs. 


11. Name, organization, and means of contacting the reporting individual. 




- 489 - 




489 






10.0 RECOMMENDED READING LIST 




Good, Timothy. Above Top Secret: The Worldwide UFO Cover-Up. Acacia Press, Inc., 1989. 
Greer, Steven. Extraterrestrial Contact: The Evidence and Implications. Crossing Point, Inc. 
Publications, 1999. 


Haines, Richard, et al. Close Encounters of the Fifth Kind. Sourcebooks Trade, 1999. 


Haines, Richard. Project Delta: A Study of Multiple UFO. LDA Press, 1990. 


LaViolette, Paul. Beyond the Big Bang: Ancient Myth and the Science of Continuous Creation. 
Inner Traditions International, 1994. 


LaViolette, Paul. Subquantum Kinetics: The Alchemy of Creation. Starline Publications, 1994. 
Mallove, Eugene J. Fire from Ice: Searching for the Truth Behind Cold Fusion Furor. Infinite 
Energy Press, 1991. 


Pope, Nick, et al. Open Skies, Closed Minds: For the First Time, a Government UFO Expert 
Speaks Out. Dell Pub. Co., 2000. 


Redfem, Nicolas. The Incredible Story: of the UFOs that fell to Earth. Simon & Schuster Inti, 


2000 . 


Sturrock, Peter A., et al. The UFO Enigma: A New Review of the Physical Evidence. Aspect, 


2000 . 


Tutt, Keith. The Search for Free energy:: A Scientific Tale of Jealousy Genius, and Electricity. 
Simon and Schuster, 2001. 


Warren, Larry, et al. Left at East Gate: A First-Hand Account of Bentwaters-Woodbridge UFO 
Incident, Its Cover-Up and Investigation. Marlow & Co., 1998. 


11,0 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


There are so many people over the past 10 years who have contributed to this work that even a 
partial listing would itself be a book. I would like to tha nk the thousands of CSETI supporters 
around the world for their help, networking and dedication, without which this project could 
never have been created and fulfilled. 


I especially wish to thank my wife Emily and our four daughters for their love, dedication and 
support for these many years. Emily has worked tirelessly behind the scenes for years and always 
in the most self-effacing and pure-hearted way. There is just no one like her on this planet. 
Tha nk you, thank you. 


My family has also sacrificed in many other ways - They have foregone several million dollars in 
income while I have been doing this work and they have, in many ways, sacrificed the most. I 
started this project, not them. How many doctor’s wives would patiently support such an effort? 
But knowing what the stakes are for humanity, how could we do otherwise? Without the 
unconditional love and support of my family this undertaking could not have even been 
contemplated. 


The list that follows can only be a partial one. It reflects the hard work and dedication of so many 
and we are indebted to them all. Special thanks go to all of the military and government 
witnesses and to my chief assistants, Linda Willitts on the west coast and Debbie Foch in the DC 
area. 




490 






Shari Adamiak 
ARS NOVA 


Major-General Vasily Alexeyev 
Eric Anderson 


Lt. Col. Dwynne Arneson (ret.) 
Colin Anderson 
Maurizio Baiata 
Msgr. Corrado Balducci 
Stephen Bassett 


Dr. Tom Bearden, Lt. Col. (ret.) 


Dr. Fred Bell 


Harland Bentley 


Cmd. Graham Bethune (ret.) 


Don Bockehnan 


Gildas Bourdais 


Shell Boyd 


Dr. Jan Bravo 


Bob and Teri Brown 


Lt. Col. Charles Brown (ret.) 


Sgt. Robert Blazina 


David Browning 


John Callahan 


Sgt. Stoney Campbell 


Franklin Carter 


Astronaut Gordon Cooper 


Col. Philip Corso, Sr. (ret.) 


Philip Corso, Jr. 


Anthony and Patricia Craddock 
Gordon Creighton 
Prof. Paul Czysz 
Don Daniels 


Col. Ross Dedrickson (ret.) 


Glen Dennis 
Janet Donovan 
Gerry Eitner 


Maj. George Filer, III (ret.) 
Deborah Foch 
Lt. Frederick Fox 
James Fox 
Stanton Friedman 
Alan Godfrey 
Emily Greer 
A.H. 


Dr. Richard Haines 
David Hamilton 
Donna Hare 




Paola Harris 
Lt. Walter Haut 
Michael Hesemann 
Joe Heilig 
Lord Hill-Norton 
Jean Houston 
Joel Howard 
Dorothy and Burl Ives 
Prof. Robert Jacobs 
Don Johnson 
Miles Johnston 
Harry A. Jordan 
Kevin Kachikian 
Miki Kaipaka 
Enrique Kolbeck 
James Kolbeck 
Marian Kramer 
Alice Ladas 
Kelly and Peter Lakin 
Dr. Paul LaViolette 
Prof. Ted Loder 


Brig. Gen. Stephen Lovekin, Esq. 


Ted Mallon 


Rosemary May 


John Maynard 


Mark McCandlish 


Denise McKenzie 


Astronaut Edgar Mitchell 


Dr. Eugene Mallove 


Jaime Mausson 


Merle Shane McDow 


Cmd. Will Miller (ret.) 


Robert Mitchell 
Sgt. Dan Morris (ret.) 


Jordan Pease 
Donald Phillips 
Dr. Roberto Pinotti 
Antonio Pinto 
Capt. Massimo Poggi 
Nick Pope 
Sgt. Leonard Pretko 
Rhiannon Pruett 
Dr. H. E. Puthoff 
Nick Redfem 
Capt. Lori Rehfeldt 
Lawrence Rockefeller 




491 






Dr. Carol Rosin 
Ron Russell 
Capt. Robert Salas 
Daniel Sheehan, Esq. 


Gary Shrieves 


Fred Smith 


Michael Smith 


Peter Sorenson 


Sgt. Chuck Sorrells 


Ralph Steiner 


Sgt. Clifford Stone (ret.) 


Jeff Thill 
Fred Threlfall 
Daniel Monoz Tovar 
Capt. Bill Uhouse 
Paul Utz 


Lt. Robert Walker 
Larry Warren 
Dr. Alfred Webre 
Dotha Welbourne 
LC Jonathan Weygandt 
Lt. Col. John Williams (ret.) 
Dan Willis 
Linda Willitts 
Karl Wolfe 


Lt. Col. Joe Wojtecki (ret.) 
Dr. Robert Wood 
Sandra Wright 




492